V. 4. לא כן הרשעים כי אם־כמץ. The fate awaiting the רשעים and the chaff which לע wind impels, could not with more vivid examples be put together. presupposes a preceding description of the way of life that merits such a fate. Therefore in לא, רשע cannot denote the failure of the undertakings of the רשעים. Conversely, we believe that the result of the work of the רשעים must instead be understood as an expression of contrast to the ethical conduct of the righteous. Therefore הרשעים כי is stands in contrast to כי אם רשעים as they do not immerse themselves in the Law of God, and they thereby do not set themselves a goal. Rather it is God's Teaching that attains a purpose, a Law that is standard down as unchangeable, and which is to be adopted by them as the interpreting of all their thoughts and desires. They are, instead, free men, רצה, derived from רצון, "to stick out," is the outer husk which, even though its shape is still similar to that of the fruit which it originally covered, is still only chaff.

רוח תדפנו כמץ אשר—it therefore succumbs to the force of the wind which drives it hither and yon. The lawless are thus. They have neither seed nor root. They adhere to no Law whatsoever. Their life and their actions are not supported by any principles. God's Law does not guide them in their choice of passions and temptations.

V. 5. על כן לא. רשע, "to remain standing," "to stand up," can also be transferred to mean "to rise to a standing position." See Gen. 23:17 and 19, etc. קבץ is the Divine Judgment over the deeds of men. Because the רשעים seek neither nor other support from God's moral Law and revealed will; because they know nothing of God and do not wish to be aware of His environmental temptations, they will be unable to rise up or "stand up" in the Divine Judgment. The רשעי, those who, in their levity, have forfeited their goal and thereby no longer strive for a goal, can still less do so. Therefore they cannot come before Him to stand God's Judgment to the same extent as those who consciously and deliberately scorn His Law, but neither shall they find a place in the Divine Judgment or those who, according to the direction of their deliberate endeavor, are הצדיקים. The phrase "עדה לא" is the predicate for רשעים. צדיק denotes that person who, as opposed to the רשעים and the חטאים, fulfills all his duties concerning God and man and carries them out, and who, having been based upon a common purpose and a common belief in that purpose.
