fulfillment of life's tasks, the Torah is the guide for his thinking. He desires and of his actions. It protects him against the ways and by-paths of the רשעים and the חטאים. The לעג, the night, when man rests from his daily labors and turns to his perceptive and sensitive inner being, is devoted to the תורה, to the refreshing of his אני. The noble pleasure of God's thought world with his emotions through ever-growing recognition of all that is good and true, by ever-renewed and increasing enthusiasm for goodness and truth. In this sense then:

הגה is that active thinking which demands expression. Thus also the natural animal sounds לעו נהר (Isaiah 38:14) כגלגה תחמה להו (Ibid. 31:4); צפור על קנה מחמה וכגה (Prov. 5:19; Job 27:4); נהמה צדק להג (Psalm 35:28). Hence it is also the very specific expression denoting the thoughtful "study" of the Torah, which essentially is not attained by a transient fleeting glance, but demands continually earnest thinking whereby this "studies" alone the precise verbal expression of the thought which is being brought to life. Joshua too, was charged as follows: לא ימוש ספר התורה מפיך והגית בו יומם ולילה למען (Joshua 1:8)—therefore study in the fullest sense, as well as thoughtful verbal expression.

V. 3. ושתול. Through this absorption of all his thoughts, endeavors and actions in the Torah he becomes a בעלי, According to an explanation of our sages (Abodah Zarah 19a), ושתול is not synonymous with נטע. נטע is the original planting. ושתול, however, is the transplanting of young shoots into most favorable and fertile soil and the most beneficial environment. The Rabbinic ושתול, the expression of earnest endeavor. This expression is highly appropriate to the foregoing explanation. He draws nourishment for the growth of his mental powers from the precepts of the Torah. It is not that he happens to find himself by accident of birth or circumstances, but after serious deliberation he implants himself in the Source, where he can develop the best that is his true נטע. The best implantation in the richest soil in this source is, of course, the Torah. There could be some doubt as to the significance of the plural form ושתול used here. One might suppose that the planting could take place close to many brooks. It would denote exactly the same time. Perhaps, therefore, this is intended to convey the thought that though there are many brooks, he, deliberately, planted himself only at one; and this is the Torah. Hence, the plural נתיבתיו. Since this actually, ושתול means "to divide," "to go apart," then עץ ושתול would denote many separate branches of water, all springing from the same source, and the ושתול is planted in the midst of all these brooks, the various facets of the Torah. They all arise from One Source, the Source of Divine perfection. It is a description of the Torah which, from the One Source of the Divine
