    1→יהוה, my God, the ruler of my destiny, the guide of my acts, the God Whom I praise, and I may count upon Thy help against my foes. For even when distressed by Thy chastisement, those who offer themselves to Thee as messengers of Thy punishment are wicked men, who cannot justify their acts. Thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress, I recognize in the very extremes the humiliating blow upon the cheek in the persecution of Thy word, in the pronouncement of Thy Law. Thou hast broken the teeth, that is to say, the power and the possibility to repeat the injury. Thus "Thy power, when it deprives men of the capacity to harm, does not mean that Thou hast deprived them of all hope for success." על פני is a "blow signifying reproach and humiliation". Thus also in Kings I. 22:24.
    2→
    3→(כ-3)
    4→
    5→V. 9. ליהוה הישועה, "salvation is with God". The core of the call to judgment over his enemies which David voiced in Verse 8. He now places it in the hands of God whether or not He wishes to help. He merely prays that He do so in accordance with His grace. "This psalm is therefore not about that which seems best from the point of view of the individual, but whatever would bring a blessing to His people."
    6→
    7→PSALM IV
    8→
    9→"To grant victory not" כי למען מרוקעת נציח is "Do victors calmness?" by the closest instrumental music. נגינת, the power of music, elevates both mind and emotions to Divine inspiration and this leads man the strength to overcome anything that might disturb his inner peace and serenity. Then we find it II Kings 3:15: ויהי כנגן המנגן והיתה עליו יד יהוה. God is then brought closer to the soul, and man drawn nearer to Him (cf. Sho'el I:16). Then we also read in Proverbs 119:54: זמרות היו לי חקיך בבית מגורי. "Sing unto Him Who rejoices when His children emerge victorious from distress. Each Psalm has a למנצח מזמור, a basic thought or instruction; here שיר דוד למנצח בנגינת, this psalm, too, shows the struggle upward out of a mood weighed down by distress, to the heights of
   10→
