     1→and especial precaution, should come to submit to the spiritual and ethical de-
     2→mands made known to them by you. If, however, they will not be receptive
     3→to this measure to the realization of the goal of mankind, if it will become
     4→clear that the arrogance of those who deny God will not yield and that it will
     5→break into pieces devoid of power, flee nations' vessels struck by a rod of
     6→iron." In this the future tense of the "kal" inflection, derived from רעע, "to
     7→break to pieces," is, perhaps, pointedly used.
     8→V. 10. חטא. "And now," says David, "since this is God's design
     9→which has been irrevocably proclaimed, השכילו, then comprehend this. Being
    10→comprehended and in accordance with this תטא, let yourselves be admonished
    11→to instruction and discipline, submit yourselves to the moral law. You, who,
    12→as עם, ושפט אחר to put earthly affairs in order, must first acknowledge the
    13→Lord King of the universe as your King, and let Him rule over you as surely
    14→and over all others. Make His law your standard and the guiding principle
    15→of your lives and of the lives of the nations that are to be shaped by you."
    16→V. 11. עבדו. "The first thing is עבדו את יהוה, to serve the Lord.
    17→Serve God with your labors as the princes and rulers of the lives of nations.
    18→Let the fulfillment of His will, the realization of His purposes, the bringing
    19→about of His כבוד, honor, be the final goal of your activities. Let the
    20→constant realization of His greatness and of the supremacy of His will against
    21→which whatever contrary opinions or desires you may harbor shall be bent
    22→before the power of His omnipotence." This is the significance of עבדו, וגילו,
    23→גילו, יראה. See Gen. 2:19.
    24→יראה ביראה וגילו ברעדה. The greatest joy, simchah joy (probably related to
    25→ישע, "salvation"), is, no doubt, the consciousness of success and prosperity. This
    26→is not the mood in which the Divine service of our endeavors in life should be
    27→fulfilled. It is only in tense proneness that issues as a whole blossoms forth
    28→in all its richness that forms the proper mood for עבדו. Joyfulness is alien to
    29→his task. But this tenderfoot joy is found only ברעדה, in the complete dis-
    30→appearance of any opposition to the will of God, in the awareness of the fact
    31→that, without God, we are nothing and can achieve nothing; in the terrifying
    32→and enervating realization of letting our ultimate purpose be in accordance with
    33→God and in letting only that which contributes to the great sovereign purpose of
    34→God with our every achievement, great or small, then no contribution of
    35→ours, however great or small, must be lost, and we may suppose it is so even if it is at
