12) So shall all those who put
their trust in Thee rejoice; they
shall shout for all time. Give
Thou wilt give them shelter, but
they that love Thy Name shall ex-
ult in Thee.

13) For, Thou wilt bless the
righteous, O Lord, Thou sur-
roundest Him with favor as with
a shield.

V. 12. יחד ישמחו. "The fall of my adversaries and their destruction
has been my deliverance and salvation. Thus all who are like me and
shall be a clear, striking sign of Divine justice," says David. "It will prove
that crime always brings about its own destruction. Therefore all those who,
despite all the temptations of earth and the power of evil and error, like me
will rejoice, יחד ערני and they will learn to remain of good cheer forever.
לעולם ירננו. They will thus give them shelter. By destroying my enemies,
Thou wilt have removed all the obstacles on my path; and, in my present
distress just as I was. Because of their estrangement and revived trust in Thee,
the adversity all about them will lose its depressing force. כי יחד (see
Comm. to I. 2.). But it is particularly the לעולם, who will exult in Thee and in
Thy Sovereignty thus manifested. They are the ones who out of our perception of
God, and in the quiet reverence and surrender to the will of the Most High that
rule, is exertion are those who find their greatest bliss in the growth of
their soul, in the molding of God, and in in preparative among their fellow
men the knowledge of the true God. Thus it is particularly they who will prevail, and
on earth. In this era of darkness caused by the sins of men, an untransferable
trust in תור, in that which was revealed to us by our perception of God and
by the command of His word, is the one test of fidelity and adherence to God
and to God's Law and can keep them sure of the dawn in mankind's history
that must come one day. When, in this gloomy night, the finger of God's
moral Law seems to us to be broken and injustice seems to have triumphed, and
crime, through the downfall of evil before the eyes of all—then "those who
love the Name of God" shall exult. For every such manifestation of God's
Law and of His moral rule is a proof to the lovers of His Name, one
one more proof of that truth which their acts of faith have cherished in their
hearts and which they have proclaimed with heroic courage of all times to a
scoffing world.

V. 13. יחד פי ער תרכא. For understanding forces its way through, so that,
