error, "because of those" who would eagerly pounce upon any irregularity
in his conduct to justify the slander they have spread among the people
against the servant of God. The second half of the verse makes it clear that
he is not based upon truth; it is only a figment of their minds which are
brooded to a lie.
ראה חובת הלבות, במה עת מכל לב, מע, says is that which leads to their ruin.
Their scheming minds brood upon that which spells the grave for the happi-
ness of their fellow-men. Their threat is the open portal of this sepulchre and
a man entering it is a victim of their guiles. Their tongue is polished and
there is hopelessly doomed to fall into this grave dug by those plotters of evil.
It may also be that the word תורה in Verse 9 refers to the כבה חזרי
which, as in I. 5, can be regarded as the sum and essence of evil-doers. Thus
in certain adversaries in particular, i.e.: Achitophel and the rebels whom he
had incited to revolt. Then the singular of תרע would refer to the תורא חזרי,
and the plural of לשונם would refer to the followers whom he incited. The
בת אזל תרעא מלא would then express a thought as follows: "For there is not one
word of truth in the mouth of Achitophel. Because of him, the minds of his
adherents have become an open sepulchre. But he can gild speech, they
esteem the people and make them fall prey to disaster."
V. 11. תור חוטאי, תדין denotes the destruction which the sinner
has brought upon himself. It usually refers to that downfall which comes as
a result of crimes committed against society. (See Comm. to Lev. 5:7 and
5:21). The מפעלם הנשים, the "wicked deeds" of the wicked, are not their trans-
gression of justice to men. תרעינו, instead of the happiness which they seek
to attain by means of crime, let them find their own destruction such as they
have plotted for their fellow-men.
וכי כבני זו המריבם, תרצא, תרצא is the stronger form of תרצא, "to estrange",
"to send away" (Psalms 42:5). תורר תחת ספרו by "They intend to remove
him from the throne, not because of the multitude of his crimes, but only
because of the multitude of their crimes or, let them suddenly lose all the
prosperity which they now possess or might yet attain." רצי פא יב, "for they
have not only risen up against me, but first and foremost they have rebelled
against Thee and Thy moral Law."
