—
nina is 8 rare feminine plural form, used here instead of ‏בגלים‎ in order to
stress the contrast to the manly and warlike appearance of the king as
portrayed earlier in the psalm. Pleasant fragrances emanate from these

3 garments, But these are not perfumes that are unbecoming to a man. The
garments bring these perfumes from the ivory palaces where myrrhs, aloes
and cassias had been planted for the pleasure of the king, "2 “the garments
have derived the perfume from that place where these fragrant trees

‎you.”‏ 1806098 ש
‎ma. In Zechariah 14:6 nip: appears as an abstract‏ וגר ,10 יר
‎noun, and may also have been used here to imply that “daughters of kings‏
‎are present to participate at your wedding feast, wearing ‘your finery,’ that‏ ש
.נצבה שגל וגו" ‎is, the finery which you have given them upon this occasion.”‏
‎“But the royal bride, standing at your right hand, is wearing the golden‏
‎when used as‏ שגל ‎am.‏ מאופיר .)10:11 1 ‎ornaments of Ophir.” (Seo Kings‏
:קרי ‎Vv a verb, always has a vulgar connotation, and therefore it is read as‏
‎It most likely does not have this unsavory‏ .כתיב ‎whenever it occurs in‏ שכם.
‎connotation is the noun form, for otherwise it would not have been employed‏
‎has been handed down to us for its interpretation‏ קרי ‎in this instance, and no‏ ש
‎when it is used in the noun form. Most probably this vulgar connotation‏
‎is related‏ שגל ‎is not the original one. It is more probable that the root‏
‎to bap, which denotes the intimate, exclusive acquisition of 8 prized object.‏
‎Vv (Cf. Commentary to Exod. 19:5).‏
‎The singer now addresses the king’s daughter as‏ ,שמעי ‎V. 11, ‘Am‏
‎follows: "Now give all your attention to that which you see and hear in‏
‎this place and to that which I shall yet tell you, Dismiss from your mind‏ ש
‎the thoughts that make you sad, the thoughts of your own kinfolk from‏

‎--- whom you now must part.” “jay is also part of that family group. If we
interpret ‏עמך‎ in its conventional meaning; i. 6. as “people,” then we could
assume that the princely bride addressed bere was a foreigner and we could

‎| then ponder just which king it was that is being praised in this psalm. Such