faults.-
14) Keep back Thy servant also ‏ה‎ 0
‏ד‎ they “78 RE WHT ‏כו‎
‎Perhaps t would then be a diamond. The meaning of ‏נפת צופים‎ is also
obscure. According to Sota 48b it is the finest grade of flour which remains
on top ‏(צפה)‎ even after repeated sifting (702) (see Commentary to Exod.
5 16:31) and is characterized by a natural sweetness. 701 ‏סולת שצפה על גבי‎
‏.ודומה לעיסה שנילושה בדבש ושמן‎ According to other commentators (ad loc.)
it is a fine grade of honey which the bees gather from herbs growing on
high mountains. At any rate, what is meant here is that the acquisition,
in both theory and practice, of the doctrines and laws of the Torah is the
Vv Most sublime goal that it is possible for us to desire and attain.
V. 12. ‘ui ‏עבדך‎ bx, ‏,גוהר‎ see Commentary to Exod. 18:20, is “to
‘be warned,” “to let oneself be warned.” “In the early stages of my moral
‏ש‎ development,” David thus tells us, “I regarded the divine precepts primarily
as ‘cautions’ because they restrained me from doing that which I would have
desired to do had it not been for their interference.” This is really a tacit
admission of the fact that, in the beginning, David felt these Jaws to be a
‏ש‎ limiting, confining influence in his Jife, restraints that did not always make
him happy and often entailed sacrifices on his part. It was only ‏,בשמרם‎
‎once he began to keep and fulfill them conscientiously, that he came to sense
Vv ‏רב‎ apy, their rich, blissful power as described in Verses 8—I1. apy, see
Commentary to Gen, 22:18 and to Deut, 7:12, Cf, Psalm 111;10.
V.13. “OL ‏שגה ,שגיאות‎ is not an error due to carelessness of criminal
thoughtlessness (which would be 27). It rather denotes an ercor due to
Vv imperfect understanding and reasoning from which no man is immune and
of which be may often not even be conscious. (See Commentary to Genesis,
43:12), (Lev. 4:13). Such errors, therefore, are often ‏,נסתדות‎ they were
‏ש‎ not recognized as “faults” when they were committed and frequently they
are not understood as such even much later, so that it is often impossible
—— to correct them. Therefore David asks the Lord ‏נקני‎ to protect and cleanse
him from such unconscious errors which no man can entirely avoid,
‏זדים .גם מודים .14 .ער‎ cannot possibly mean “wanton deeds’;
| wherever this expression occurs, it is used to denote “wanton men” who