5 ‏וו‎ OO OE ROE I Bg oe

he who so acts as by these princi-
“A ples will not waver forever. ‏לְעלם:‎ ete
PsaLM XVI
1) A tenet of David. Keep me, ‏א% קר‎ Ty ‏מ 1 מִכְתם לער‎
© God, for I have taken refuge 7 ‏זר‎
‎in Thee. ‏תי בי‎
from evil, for an oath has a binding quality which would strengthen us in our

5 firm resolve to follow the paths of righteousness.

- ‏.שר‎ 5. at ‏ענזהתם כספר‎ depicts complete waselfishness in doing good
to others, either by assisting them financially of by giving them some other
help they might need. ‏בשך‎ and ‘my, the concept of usury and bribery, are
by no means limited to money and monetary values. According to Judaism,

‎even the smallest advantage accruing to the helper as a result of his good‏ ש
‎decd would take on the character of accepting interest or bribes. Sce‏
‎Commentary to Deut. 23:20, Exod. 23:8. The man who is truly altruistic‏
‎does good with his money and expects no returns whatsoever. If he can‏
‎Vv render aid to an innocent person in need, he will Jeap to his side and defend‏
‎him without allowing himself to be guided by any selfish considerations,‏
‎ivy, these are some basic characteristics of a way of life such‏ אלה
‎as the law of Zion expects of anyone who wishes to be numbered among the‏ שי
‎sons of Zion, He who fulfills these requirements as a matter of principle—‏
‎(see Chap. 14:1), can be sure of receiving help from‏ עושה ‎not my, but‏
‎he will not‏ ,לא ימוט לעולם ‎Vv Zion, His happines may sometimes be dimmed but‏
‎waver forever.‏
‎PSALM XVI‏
‎For the basic theme used in the interpretation of‏ ,מכתם לדוד .1 ‎Vv V.‏
‎this psalm, I am indebted to my teacher Bernays "3 of blessed memory.‏
‎when used as 8 noun, denotes a superior kind of gold.‏ ,כתם ‎non,‏
‎where it denotes‏ ,נכתם עונןף לפני ,2:22 ‎Tt occurs in the verb form in Jeremiah‏ ש
‎are stains that are blood-‏ כתמים ‎‘an indelible stain. In Rabbinic literature‏
‎(Chron, II‏ זהב פרוים ‎is synonymous with‏ כסם ‎red in color. It is probable that‏

‎— 3:6) which, according to Yomah 4-5a, means a kind of gold that is blood-
red in color. The superscription ‏מכתם‎ scems to denote a psalm which David

‎| has recorded for himself as an everlasting memorial, a tenet to which he would