‘a wind instrument the tones of which are produced by means of air. The
tones of the harp of ten strings, however, were so similar to those of the
Yas im thelr mefodiousness, that this harp was given the name of ‏ינבל‎
‎5, Hence the combined term ‏גבל עשור‎ would not contradict our assumption
- that ‏נכל‎ in itself was an instrument of lamentation as distinguished from
snwy which we regard as the instrument symbolizing life's perfect harmony.
‘See Psalm 92:4. ‏זמר‎ is primarily the singing of a melody, while ww de-
notes the chanting of the words in a song (see Commentary to Gen. 43:11).
‏שי‎ ‘Our language does not distinguish between these two concepts, and thus
a form of the verb “to sing” must be employed for both. We translate ‏זמר‎
‎by “singing" and ‏שיר‎ by “singing praises.” In those instances, however,
where an attribute shows ‏שיר‎ to be the “singing of a song,” we translate
‏ש‎ also ‏שיר‎ simply by “singing.”

V. 3. YR. ‏,שיר‎ see Commentary to Gen. 9:21, is primarily
used to denote “singing praises,” proclaiming the show of God's hand
Vv in the course of history. ‏שירה‎ sings of the invisible aspect of Divine
rile in the events of the present, but ‏שיר‎ refers to those signs of His
Sovereignty that will become apparent only some day in the future. ‏שיר‎
‏שי‎ and particularly ‏שיר חדש‎ are always employed with reference to the
eventual, ultimate redemption of the world, to which all the develop-
ments of history will 1636. ‏כל השירות שעברו קרויות בלשון :מכילתא בשלת‎
‏כשם שהנקבה יולדת בך התשועות שעברו היה אחריהם שיעבור אבל התשועוג‎ naps
4 ‏כך התשועה העתידה‎ TY ‏שהיא עתידה לבא קרוי' בלסון זכר כשם שאין חזכר‎
‏.לבא אין אחריה שיעבוד‎ The masculine form ‏שיר‎ refers to that salvation which
‘will be the final, splendid goat of the entire march of time, and not a mere

‎slepping stone to some other eventual redemption.‏ שי
‎is instrumental music (see Comm. to Gen, 43:12).‏ 713 .היטיבו ‎‘Nai‏
‎(see Commentary to Num. 23:21) is the deep inner emotion felt by‏ ,תרועה _
‎those who, overcome by the awareness of the greatness of the Lord, humbly‏ _
‎render Him homage. Words are not adequate to express this emotion. “Let‏ |

‎this emotion find proper expression also in music.”