is only one ‏,חכמה‎ and that is, not to wish to be a Com but to be 8 ‏.דדיק‎ It
is only the word of the ‏צדיק‎ that can speak of that righteousness which should
be the changeless criterion for all human dealings, situations and relation-
ships. Why is this so? Why is a man’s true and correct understanding of

5 what Is right irrefutably dependent upon the Life he leads? The answer
is given us in Verse 31.

V. 31. Sanna. Only the ‏צדיק‎ can be truly wise, because to him
the Lord is indeed his God. He has submitted to God’s will without reserva-
tion; God's word is his law, He takes unto himself only God's word, which

4 is supreme wisdom because it is the wisdom of the Supreme Being. The
righteous man lets this greatest of all wisdoms, whole and pure, remain the
object of all of his conscious fife and of his endeavors. He shall not refute

Vv God's doctrine by the way of life which he himself leads. And because the
Imowledge of God's Law is the science of practical life, it is not sufficient
merely to accept it in theory. It will reveal itself in all its truth, uprightness
and profundity only to him who will make it a real part of his life. No

Vv ‏רשע‎ can be a true 77>, much Jess 8 true ‏.מלמד‎ For his ‏תורה‎ is shaken and
refuted by ‏,אשוריר‎ the life he leads. He cannot recognize and utter in the
clarity of truth the very Iaw that would show his own conduct to be in the

Vv wrong. He must constantly seek ‏,היתרים‎ ways to reconcile the Law of God
with his own behavior since it is not his will to reconcile his way of life
to the ways of God, He is corrupted by the lawlessness of his own actions,
and practical wrongdoing inevitably will beget theoretical sin. It is said in

4 Psalm 111:10, ‏,כל טוב"‎ the recognition of what is good will come only
to ‏,לכל עושיהם‎ those who fulfill the Divine commandments.” Our sages say
{Berachoth 17a), ‏ללומדיהם לא נאמר‎ “It is not said here that it (the under

Vv + standing of what is good) will come to those who study them, but
‏לעושיהם‎ to those who fulfill them; that is, to those who ‏לעושים לשמה‎ fulfill

— them with sincerity, ‏ולא לעושים שלא לשמה‎ but not to those who do so with
baser motives in mind.”
| ‏.צופה רשע לצדיק ,32 .ער‎ The ‏רשע‎ becomes the implacable foe of