A strength,
ibid.) could be interpreted as referring to the mechanical detachment of the
infant from its mother, ‏,מטעי אמי‎ that takes place after birth. But such an
interpretation would hardly be appropriate here, since the cutting of the
umbilical cord is a very simple operation, performed after birth by human
hands, Besides, ‏בח‎ and 73 are generally employed to denote a spatial separa-
tion, a “setting apart” as in ‏שלוים‎ MM (Nom. 11:31), ‏ועבר‎ war ‏וכן‎ (Nahum
1:12) rather than a mechanical “cutting off.” Hence the thought here would
5 most probably be, “Thou bast set me apart. From the very moment that I
5 left my mother’s womb Thou didst isolate me and hast caused me to stand
apart from those with whom it would have been most natural that 7 should
have close contact.” Indeed, one could almost say that this was a continuous
act of ‏.גה ממעי אם‎ ‘Pen ‏עמז" ,72 תהלתי‎ ‘fame,’ all the good which has ema~
‏שי‎ nated from me, the manner in which my personality found expression and
lived and grew, all this came from Thee. It was my communion with Thee
that caused my spirit to develop and unfold.”
The litle that we know of David's childhood might serve to give us
v some understanding of these allusions, David was the youngest of eight
sons. It seems that his elder brothers slighted him, and that even his father
neither understood nor appreciated David’s true worth and character, When
‏שי‎ the sons of Jesse were introduced to Samuel (I Samuel 16:5—11) David
was almost passed over as the one “who kept the sheep.” At a later date,
when Jesse sent David to bring food to his brothers in the battlefield, Eliab,
the eldest, accused David of ‏זדון ורוע לבב‎ and treated bim most unkindly.
v ‘Thus David found litle love and understanding in the family group into
which 6 had been bom, Rejected by his family, David was forced to depend
upon his inner resources. Lesser men might find defeat in such a situation,
Vv but ₪ vigorous mind and a rich and noble spirit is capable of rising above
this handicap and, in fact, of making it an adequate basis for the development
of his personality. It is due to bis isolated position that David came to be
the great man that he was. Cast off by his kinfolk, he found the way to
Vv communion with both himself and God. God guided bim and awakened
within him a blossoming of mind and spirit, and so David, in turn, came to
know God. Thus the boy David quietly matured to young manhood.
-- ‏ב‎
‎| had hitherto been ignored and left among his sheep, stood before the
astounded multitude as the Jewish youth ‏--ה‎ t-4 ‏הפוה‎ fe=- --4 wt