PSALM XLIX

‎The songs of the sons of Korah which we have read up to‏ ,1 יר

‎this point all had themes that applied specifically to the Jewish nation. ‘The

‎content of Psalm 49, however, which is the final hymn in this group of

‎5, songs set down by “the sons of Korah," has equal significance for all of
0 mankind, its theme is the relationship of man’s material possessions to
his moral and spiritual task in life. It is only by fulfilling this task during

‎his stay on carth and by employing all his physical and material resources

‎85 means to this end that man can rescue his spiritual existence so that it

‎will reach beyond the ficeting span on carth and enter into immortality‏ ש
‎when his body dies. If, however, he should fail to recognize his true purpose‏
‎in life, and if he should regard the acquisition of material wealth as an end‏

‎in itself and as his main goal on earth, then he will forfeit immortality both‏ שי
‎here below and in Heaven above, and his existence will not continue‏
‎beyond the grave. In this psalm, the “sons of Korah” call upon all the‏
‎communities of men as well as upon all individuals irrespective of class and‏

‎v social position, to take this truth to heart. This is one basic truth which
no one can afford to dismiss lightly. /

‎Vv ‏שמעו ,שמעו 31‘ .2 .שר‎ expresses the command not to “close our
are” to the message which this psalm seeks to convey to us. ‏האזינו‎
‎summons us to “incline our cars” in order to accept the teaching offered,
for no other reason but that we feel a need for it. The ability to properly

‎evaluate the tre worth of material wealth, without overrating it, is indeed‏ ש
‎of great importance for the nations of mankind, but it is absolutely in-‏
‎dispensable to the individual if he is to fulfill his purpose in life. For it is‏

‎literally, the inhabitants‏ ,הושבי חלד ‎the individuals that are really and truly‏ ש
‎of ₪ world that is subject to the “rust” of decay, The entire physical world,‏

‎— in and through which their lives spring forth and develop, is constantly
susceptibic to the effect of decay. Therefore, above all, it is necessary for
soortal man to understand the true worth of the material goods which are

‎| his portion in this transitory world ‏חלר)‎ see Psalm 39:6).