when Thou didst march through ESS
the wilderness, [Selah]. —
is employed to describe such a relationship because it indicates a physical
dwelling together rather than the personal bond of a legal marriage. In
‘Verse 7, ‏מושיב‎ etc, means “God helps those to establish a bome who,
without His aid, would have to lead a solitary life.” ‏,מוציא וגו‎ “He leads
forth the chained in their bonds.” At the moment of their liberation, they
3 ate still utterly incapable of independent action to make themselves free,
Even as Iscacl in Egypt, they too shall become free only through God.
‏כושרות‎ is the same as ‏.קושרות‎ (Concerning the common concept at the
base of the roots wa, ‏,קשר ,כשר ,שר‎ see Commentary to Gen. 2:7. ‏אך‎
‏צתח .סוררים וגו"‎ is related to ‏זהח‎ in Rabbinic literature, which denotes an

‎"mnt, and from this we derive mmx, meaning “a‏ לב ‎upward rising, as in‏ ש
‎(Nehemiah 4:7). This expression stresses‏ בצהיתים ‎rocky bill,” “a rock.”‏
נתתי ‎the barren, dry hardness of a rock, which absorbs no moisture, as in‏

‎Vv ‏את דמה על צחיח הסלע לבלתי הכסות‎ (Ezech. 24:8), and ‏צחצחות‎ (Isaiah 58:11)
means “barrenness.” Thus God is mercifully near to all, even to the most
forsaken among men. As for the ‏,סוררים‎ who show Him only disobedience,
woe, they may sccm “ot fest,” apparently unharmed by the blows that

‎Vv strike others beside them. But they will find that the “hill” upon which
they stand and which they think will afford them security, is nothing but
@ mass of barren rocks. They shal] receive no dew of comfort and cheer

‎when they will need it. For them there is no joy, no blossoming. Unlike‏ ש
‎and there is‏ ,ששון ‎nor‏ שמחה ‎(Verse 4) they shall have neither‏ ,צדיקים ‎the‏
‎no rich soil of hope for the future on the barren ground upon which they‏
‎stand,‏

‎4 V. 8. ‏באלק" וגל‎ ‘Thus God demonstrated His sovereign power in
‏,יציאת מצרים‎ when He revealed Himself and went forth before His people,
which He had chosen not as a mere religious congregation, but as His own

‎Vv Dy, a national community in whose midst the will of His Law is to reign
supreme both in private and public life. Thus, too, He showed His might

‎—— when He marched through the desert with this His people. At that time
God caused us to experience His loving care and neamess which He bestows
even upon the most forsaken of men and denies only to the ‏סוררים‎ who

‎| persist in disobeying Him. It is this concept of God's nearness to all which