of development. He, Who now seems to be at rest and Who guides the
present which is only a foretaste of the future, will one day bring order to the
chaos of the world by means of justice. He will do this by measuring all
human affairs against the standard of “Justice” and.by securing permanent
recognition of this principle. He will judge the relationships of nations to one:
another through the application of the principle of ‏ישך .מישרים‎ (See Comm.
to Deut, 6:18), is not rigid justice, but a concept of rectitude, which strives

5 to meet the needs of the circumstances, and which can be practiced by means
of the waiver of certain legal claims that would be justified in themselves
under other conditions. It is the idea of fairness and of mutual compromise,
If inteenational law will be founded upon such mutual respect as God
demands as His due, it will become the basis of permanent peace.

v ‘The eventual downfall of every kind of despotism even during these
present days of chaos is an indication of that future day when justice and
fairness will reign supreme. It becomes a warming to all those who believe

‎that the power of tyrants will last forever,‏ שי

‎But by sending His warming to all tyrants through‏ .ויהי ה' ונר .10 יר

‎historical catastrophes heralding the coming of the Day of Judgment, God

‎old age,‏ .16--שיבה ,שיב ‎is to space that which‏ שגם. .משגב לדך ‎becomes a‏ שי
‎“towering” over all the other years of life—is to time. It is something‏

‎“towering over” all other heights. ‏משנב.‎ is a high tower that raises us above

‎all aflliction (Sce Commentary to Gen. 25:8 and to Deut. 2:36). ‘1, derived

‎v from 737, “to crush”, is the expression of the greatest misery, denoting a
person crushed by the impact of violence and tragic events. It is said in the
Midrash, ‏אמר ד" יוזנן כל מקום שגאמי דל דך עני אביון מך (!) בישראל הכתוב מדבר‎

‎which means that wherever the expres-‏ ,שאיך עניות זה מהם משחרב בית המקדש ש
‎occur, they refer to Israel, which bas never been free of poverty‏ דל דך וכ' ‎sions‏
‎is “time” in,‏ זמן ,לעתות ‎and misery since the destruction of the Temple.‏
‎a cutting knife), is an‏ ,אתים ,את ‎general, ny, derived from nny (related to‏

‎4 individual moment “cut off? from other periods of time. Thus ‏ועת‎ tot ‏לכל‎
‎yan ‏:לכל‎ Everything takes time, all things must ripen slowly. ‘Therefore
everything cannot happen at just any time. yon ‏לכל‎ ny , there is a proper,

‎— definite moment for everything. By permitting Israel to see the downfall
of the most powerful nations, the Lord becomes the source of exaltation to
this most wretched among the peoples af tha wneld a tnmer af ctrancth fae