people who throughout its tribulations placed all its trust in the Lord. ity

is not only the counsel that is given in the form of advice, but also a plan,

‎decision, a counsel taken for the purpose of observance and execution, ‘Thus‏ ב
זאת העצה היעוצה על כל הארץ וגו' ‎the word ys” generally means “to decide”,‏

‏עצת ה' לעולם ‎(Isaiah 14:26, 27), also Psalm 13:3 and‏ כי ה' צבאו' יעץ ומי ‎sp‏

‎cnayn (Psalm 33:11)and elsewhere. w3 expresses the feeling of shame and

‎humiliation caused by unfulfilled hopes (see Commentary to Gen. 2:25),

‎v ‘wan is the Hiphil form, thus, to disdain something as a hope doomed to
disappointment. 7x (related to Wx, “‘monument”) is always used in the

‎‘mn to describe the temple site as a Sanctuary of the Law, ‏חורה‎ xen ‏כי מציון‎

‎v Csaiah 2:3). ‏שוב‎ with the accusative, ‏שוה שבות‎ (Cf, Comm, to Deut. 30:3).
From all the foregoing we have scen the historical fact that God's

‎guiding and saving power has manifested itself whenever Israel, in its tong

‎history, has had to contend with danger, Based on the above, the Psalm

‎4 now asks of them that surround Israel, “Seeing all this, would you still wish
to ridicule the poor man who seems to have no outward support whatsoever

‎as far as power and respect are concerned? Will you still call it self-deception

‎Vv ‘when he puts bis trust in the Lord alone, and call it a foolish hope that will
never be fulfilled? For who is it who has supported Israel in the past and

‎in the present, and who will continue to do so in the future, from Zion,

‎through Zion, because of Zion, by means of the spiritual treasure of the ‏חורה‎

‎Vv which was deposited there? Who is it, then, to whom Zion will remain
sanctified and hallowed forever, even while it is desolate? Zion! It is to

‎that place that the exiles from the four comers of the earth hopefully direct

‎their prayers, whither from north, south, east and west they direct their‏ ש
‎Diissful exaltation which upholds chem in all their suffeting. Who is it, then,‏

‎--- who has performed this great historical miracle of Istael’s continued exist-
ence and perennial ioner blossoming, by means of the spiritual treasure

‎vouchsafed unto us from Zion and who will surely bring Israel to its

‎| promised full fruition? ‏=מי יתן מציון ישועת ישראל?.‎ 186606, it is none other