on ‏תההלים כמ-%‎
PSALM XXX
1) A Psalm, a song of the PNM yp a ‏ל‎
‎dedication of The Temple, by ° °
David.
oN
achievements, even if a whole world should stand against them, ‏ה' יברך‎
‏.את עמו בשלום‎
PSALM XXX
V. 1. The contents of this psalm might present some difficulry with
respect to the question of what the connection is between the rest of this
psalm and its superscription. The balance of Psatm 30 does not contain
2S, even one word about the Temple, much less of its construction and dedi-
cation. Instead, it would seem that we have here a description of a whole
lifetime of experiences, attesting to the healing and deliverance, trials and
bliss which the Lord sends to those who devote themselves to Him in love.
However, the reference here to the Temple may perhaps be better under-
‏ש‎ stood if we examine the entire psalm more closely. Let us consider for a
moment the nature and significance of the Temple, the Jewish House of
God, which is primarily intended to bring to mind the nearness of God on
‏ש‎ earth, the intimate relationship of God and man—the presence of the Lord
in the midst of human endeavor as well as the heavenward striving of
man toward Him. The Sanctuary of the Lord is nothing else but a concrete
symbol of the truth that, wherever all of man's spiritual and physical
‏ש‎ existence and striving (mum ‏(שולהן‎ is devoted to attain God's favor
‏הקטרת)‎ nara), to the practical application of the Law of God ‏(ארון)‎ , then
all of human life, both individual and communal, becomes a throne of
‏שי‎ Cherubim (159). God’s invisible presence will seat itself upon this throne
in order benevolently to protect, guide and further all human striving on
earth, A corroboration of this fact is found in the words in which Israel
was first commanded to build a Sanctuary unto the Lord ‏תעשו לי מקדש‎
‏ושכנתי בתוכם ש‎ (see Commentary to Exod. 25:8). Let us consider how the
original thought of a “House of God” and the first dedication of a corner-
stone for such a sanctuary emanated from the recognition of the intimate
‏ש‎ union between Heaven and earth and, above all, from the protecting and
benevolent presence of God. This august presence reveals itself directly,
—_ to man first and foremost, in man’s pure and humble endeavor in “establish-
ing his house" on earth, so that the pure abode of man might become a
--- “House of God” and thus a gate of entry to heaven upon earth, ‏אין זה‎
| ‏שער השמים‎ AN ‏אלקים‎ ma ‏,כי אם‎ Finally, let us remember that the first