me, and one who, sanctimonious-
ly, does wrong.
Vv. 11, "m ‏דרך .הורני‎ denotes the path of individual morality.
25, ‏ארח‎ refers to our ways in dealing with our fellow-men. Both of these, moral
0 purity before God and honest dealing with other men, ‏אדם למקום‎ paw ‏מצות‎
‎and tian? ‏שבין אדם‎ belong together and are inseparable. Only he who has
become a “whole” Jew through equal zeal and loyalty to both of these
duties may look up to God and “seek His face.” “Therefore teach me both
Vv of these ways and lead me in them both. Do not let me err or stumble with
fespect to either.” As regards 4217, however, the ‏אדם למקום‎ paw ‏,מצות‎
‎emphasis is put on ‏,הורני‎ that ‏דרכך‎ be taught us. With respect to ‏,ארח מישור‎
Vv the tian? ‏שבין אדם‎ mun, stress is laid on ‏,נחני‎ that we be guided in ‏-ארח מישור‎
Tn the former, it is essential that we must know that we are in need of
specific teaching as to how to fulfill its requirements. In the latter, however,
Vv the knowledge and understanding of what is good and true in our social
relationship is more easily obtained, and all that we need here is Divine
guidance in order that we may hew closely to the Hines drawn up by the
Vv requirements of justice and right. (See Commentary to Lev. 18:4, 5).
‏למפך שוררר‎ sce Commentary to Psalm 5:9. “Let me succeed in guarding
myself even from the mere semblance of wrongdoing, even if it is only
‏שי‎ because of my foes, who would rejoice if they could find some fautt with me.”
V. 12, ‏.אל תתנגי וגו"‎ “Do not deliver me up to the will of my foes.
Do not let me become the person they wish me to be. Let me not be
‏ש‎ that which they slanderously claim that 1 am.” ‏חמס‎ nb" see Commentary to
Psalm 10:5. “False witnesses have risen against me. There is one man,
--- in particular, who, while he does not openly accuse me of wrongdoing,
_ hypocritically and sanctimoniously insinuates it, Such veiled slander is
even more ‏חמס‎ than openly voiced accusations, because it robs me of my
| good repute.” ‏המס‎ see Commentary to Gen. 6:11.