10 Us Ulat Verses 16—21 below contain 16685 which David had formulated
in communion with Achithophel and which, as a matter of fact, he most
likely owed to the latter. These ideas stand out in David’s memory because

5 they are in such flagrant contradiction to Achithophel’s present conduct.
‏רגש‎ is not used in the ‏תג"ך‎ to denote inner feeling or emotion. In the Psalms
it occurs only in this verse and in Psalm 2:1, ‏,למה רגשו גוים‎ and Psalm 64:3,
TR ‏פועלי‎ ware. In both these latter instances the word indicates violent
visible agitation, and by no means the quiet or solemn emotion such as

Vv might be seemly for the man who goes to the House of God to worship.
Here, too, ‏רגש‎ simply means “turmoil.” David says to Achithophel, “When
the throngs outside were in turmoil, it was our blissful secret to go to the

‎House of the Lord and to seek and find there those truths which permitted‏ שי
‎us to retain inner calm and serene trust even in the midst of all the turmoil‏
,בית ה' נלך 122:1 ‎as in Psalm‏ ,נלך ‎outside.” Therefore we do not read here‏
‎showing that this “going to the House of the Lord” was the result‏ ,בהלך ‎but‏

‎Vv of a specific resolve to do $0.

‎V. 16, ‏.ישימות וג"‎ These are the thoughts that David and Achi-

‎thophel formulated together in the House of God, as opposed to the turmoil

‎It is not necessary‏ .נשה ‎is the Hiphil form of‏ ישי ‎of the crowds outside.‏ שי
‎for men to take action against the evil throngs that are in turmoil, for the‏

‎Lord appoints death to collect the debt which they owe. ‏שאול חיים‎ TT.

‎They do no perish gradually, but quite suddenly, in the midst of apparent

‎Vv good health: ‏חיים‎ they go down into the grave. Their dwelling place which
scemed so permanent is only "38, a temporary abode, or, “wherever they
may dwell, there ‏בקרבם‎ mys.” Disaster need not come to them from with-

‎out; wherever they go they bear evil within their own hearts, and their‏ שי
‎downfall shail come from within them.‏

‎— ‏ער‎ 17. "a ‏.אני‎ Thus had Achithophel taught David, or, thus had
David said of hitaself: “If God, in His rule of justice, decrees that I must
suffer, then I shall turn to Him, and, once I do so, His own loving-kindness

‎| (7) will return to me and grant me salvation once more.”