ai ‏תחנוה קה-₪מם‎
36) Thou shalt one day be ‏בש‎ 2 86
feared, O God, from out of ‘Thy ‏אל ממ אל‎ 1
holy places, the God of Israel; it ‏לע‎ MIpRUD) Ippo an ‏יקאל‎
‎is He that grants invincibility and ‏לחים:‎ and
“ power to a people; blessed be God. one
PSALM LXIX / ,
1( To Him Who grants victory. 1p ‏עלשושנם‎ naka ‏סט‎
‎‘Upon roses, By David.
‏,נורא וגל | .36 ער‎ “Thus Thou shalt one day be feared, O God, in
Thy Sanctuaries erected in Israel’s midst." The ‏מקדש‎ eonsists of ‏מקדשים‎ as
5 follows; ‏,דביר ,הוכל ,עזרת‎ These ‏מקדסים‎ teach that the “table” of material
Prosperity, and the “candelabrum” of spiritual enlightenment ‏שולחן)‎ and
‏(מנורה‎ cam be reached only by the sacrifice and devotion of all our existence
and of all our own desires to the lofty endeavor to live God’s Law in order
‏ש‎ to win His favor. This concept is symbolized by ‏,הקטרה ,זריקה ,שחיטה‎ which
must all take place in the antechambers of the Sanctuary. It is only by going
through the acts of devotion in the “antechamber” that we shall eventually
be able to attain God's presence on earth as symbolized by the Cherubim
Vv hovering over the sacred Ark of the Law ‏(ארון וכפורת)‎ . These sacred symbols
shall one day become the central point for all of mankind, and the truths
postulated through them shall go forth, make their way into the hearts of
‏ש‎ all men and move their spirits to fear the Lord. Then it will become known
that ‏ישראל‎ bt, He Who had given Israel the strength to pursue its appointed
course through world history, is the same God Who can endow any nation
with strength and invincibility. All men shall devote their lives to blessing
Vv ‘Him; that is, they shall consecrate themselves to fulfilling His will through
their lives. “pox ‏.ברוך‎
‎Vv PSALM LXIX
Vv. 1. ‏שושנים‎ by, See Psalms 45:1, 60:1. The thors with which
nature has endowed the rose mark that flower as one that is vulnerable to
Vv attack from which the thorns must protect it. Similarly, Isracl, too, is re-
minded that it is in danger of attack against which only God can protect it.
Only the Divine institutions given Israel for its wanderings through the
000 ages can supply the people of Isracl with the strength and endurance to
withstand whatever trouble may befall them. David beholds the people of
| Israel, generation after generation, wandering trough the dark centuries of