Human ceceocy. Lhea, indeed, nen have sunk down to the level of the very

tyranny and violence which it was Thy aim to eradicate from amidst the

nations by the choice of Israel as ‘Thy’ people. If such inhuman conduct,

then, were to be tolerated even in the midst of Israel, it would imply a

‎divine sanction for violence and tyranny among all the other nations. There-‏ ש

‎fore ‏,הקיצה‎ show that Thy justice is awake, and do this not simply for my

‎sake, or even for the sake of Israel alone, but for the sake of the moral

‎with the personal accusative‏ פקד ‎welfare of all the nations of the world.”‏ שי

‎preponderantly denotes “a kindly remembrance.” Thus we read ‏וה' פקד את‎

‎(Ruth 1:6),‏ פקד ה' את עמו ,)$0:24 ‎(ibid.‏ פקד יפקד אתכם ,)21:1 ‎(Gen,‏ שרה

‎(Psalm 106:4), and elsewhere.‏ פקדגי בישועתך ,)80:15 ‎(Psalm‏ ופקר גפך ואת

‎(see Comm. to Gen. 35:18) is the “mis‏ או -(59:6 ‎(Psalm‏ אל ‎tan‏ כל בגדי אוך ש

‎use of power.” TK ‏בגדי‎ are people who practice perfidy because they possess

‎the power to do so. They believe that, by virtue of their position of power,

‎they are exempt from every obligation of honesty and good faith. “If, as‏ שי

‎could be assumed by the unhindered success of their knavish tricks, men

‎of such perfidy, supported by power, can enjoy Thy jn, Thy favor, even in

‎Israel,” says David, “then the fact that they go unpunished would constitute

‎a license from Thee for ali the tyrants in the world, permitting them to‏ ש
‎indulge in any and all excesses of perfidy.”‏

‎V.7. "aww, ‏,ויסובבר עיר‎ most likely so that if David by some

‎chance should succeed in leaving his house unnoticed, he would still not be‏ שי

‎able to escape them.

‎--- ‏בסיהם ,הגה וגול .8 יר‎ nya. They make no secret of their intentions;

‎— they spew forth everything from their mouths, without reservations, ‏חרבות‎

‎the words of their mouths are even more deadly than the swords‏ (בספתותיהם.

‎| in their hands, Instead of attempting to appease the insane mistrust of Saul,