“ vation of my countenance and 0
because He is my God.
PSALM XLIV
1) To Him Who grants victory, ‏מַשָכול;‎ mpd ‏מד לצה‎
by the sons of Korah, an instruc- 9" ‏ז‎
‎tion.

- that it was God Who granted this happiness to me. It is only in this realiza-
tion that J find my true ioner joy, and then I shall gratefully pay homage
to God as the One Who has shown His Sovereignty throughout man’s
history, but particularly as ‏אלקי‎ the One Who has revealed His might cven
to me in my own personal life.”

+ V.5, See Psalm 41, Verse 12.

‎PSALM XLIV‏ ש
‎V. 1. This psalm, too, gives expression to the thoughts and emotions‏
‎of Israel in exife. While Chapters 42 and 43 portray Israel in the Babylonian‏
‎Exile, the statements contained in Verses 10-22 of this chapter are true‏ ש
‎only of that exile which began with the destruction of the Second Temple.‏
‎‘They are preponderantly applicable to the last third of this period of banish-‏
‎ment and, in part, are pertinent even to the most recent past and to Israel's‏
‎Vv situation in the present day. Those who, devoid of Jewish spirit, would deny‏
‎the existence of prophecy, may dismiss these psalms which prove incon-‏
‎venient to their logic because their content indicates the Babylonian exile,‏
‎by stating simply that they had been written “after the event {that is, the‏ ש
‎exile) had already come about.” But they would have much greater dif-‏
‎ficulty in explaining this chapter, for anyone who examines Psalm 44 with‏
‎a clear and unprejudiced mind will readily sce that its contents refer not to‏
‎Vv some event in the dim past but to the most recent centuries of our present‏
‎period of dispersion, The national singers of our people were imbued with‏
‎the spirit of the Lord which enabled them to see and sense even the re-‏ ₪

‎a motest future and fate of their people, so that their songs might become the
spiritual heritage that would accompany Israel in all of its wanderings through

‎| time. ‘These are the songs which were intended to give Israel guidance,