PSALM LX
V. 1. ‏.על שושן עדות‎ We have already pointed out in our Com-
mentary to Psalm 45:1 that the superscriptions ‏על שושנים‎ and ‏אל שושנים‎
occur also in Psalms 69 and 80. Both these chapters deal with Israel as it
undergoes the most severe tests of suffering, and it is for this reason that
the people of Israel is pictured there as a thorny rose which avails itself
5, of the thorny protection of God's sovereignty to ward off any impudent
0 attack, In the Song of Songs, Israe! is called ‏הוזחזים‎ pa ‏שושנת‎ “a rose among
thoms” (Cant. 2:2). Our sages comment upon this as follows: “Wheo a
rose stands surrounded by thoms, it will be injured by the wind regardless
of the direction from which the stormy blast will come. The rose can
Vv protect itself from hurt only if it succeeds in remaining straight and upright.
This also applies to Israel in the midst of the sufferings of exile. ‘The events
of history storm against it from every direction, and Israel must suffer
through them and from them all, and it can preserve itself in life only if it
Vv remains standing firm and upright looking up to God on high.” We also
read in Hosea 14:6 ‏לישראל יפרת כשושנה‎ bua max. The Lord is ready at all
times to send Israel the dew of revival. Let Israel only open its heart, as
v the rose unfolds its petals, and tum 15 upward to accept the life-giving
dew drops of God’s word, In Psalm 60 we also find references to the
forsaken and helpless state in which Israel was before the days of David,
and to the instances of Divine deliverence that Israel had experienced from
4 time to time in the pre-Davidian eras. In this psalm, David views these
deliverances as august reminders of the fact that the basic prerequisite for
Israel's survival is that it keep its eyes divected heavenward and train itself
Vv to become equal to its task. David is blissfully confident that, with his advent
which has the support of God, the days of defeat would come to an end
for Israel, and that henceforth Israel would command the respect of all the
world and would stand erect, “protected by thors,” as it were, among the
Vv nations, This would be a victory which was expected to attain a measure
of permanence particularly as a result of the conquest of the two Aramite
lands. In view of the foregoing, it may be assumed that, in the super-
-- scription of Psalm 60, ‏שושן‎ also pictiares Israel as the brier rose. Israel is
called ‏,שושך עדות‎ because it is a “rose” that does not have its roots in the
soil of earthly things, but can survive and binceam ‏ט[חה‎ if it is firmly