holds for him. Also behold the man who is firmly resolved not to leave
the straight path that Jeads to his destiny, Impress upon your memory his
circumstances, his relationships, his acts and his endeavors, and you will
3S, find that ‏איש שלום‎ the man whose entire life was lived in ‏,שלום‎ in complete
harmony with his God, his world and his destiny, will have ‏אחרית‎ ‘a
future’." The Literal meaning of ‏אחרית‎ is “something left behind,” something
that will remain ‏אחריו‎ “after him.” ‏איש שלום‎ is the exact opposite of the
‏איש רע‎ and the ‏.רשע‎ Not only is the life of the former free of disruptive
‏ש‎ influence and injurious caprice; it also spreads “wholeness and perfection”
everywhere and fosters the “welfare” of everything it touches,
‏.ופשפים וגר  .38 .ער‎ “And even as, by observing the ‏וישר‎ bn, you
Vv come to Imow that ‏שלום‎ mx? ‏,אחרית‎ you will also come to realize that
‏פשעים.‎ all those who transgress God's Law will not be cut off only at some
futare day, no, ‏נשמדר‎ they have already been cut off.” Even though they
‏ש‎ still seem to flourish and prosper, they have already forfeited that firm soil
from which the true and lasting happiness of men shall sprout forth, They
have forfeited it rim, “all of them together,” regardless of their social
position and of the manner and nature of their transgression. AYINK
‏,רשעים נכרתת ש‎ the feture of all despotism has been cut off.
V. 39, 40, ‏,ותטועת וגל‎ But the victory of the righteous has been
assured by God Himself, Who has been the source of their strength in the
Vv time of trouble. For it is He that has stood by them and helped them
‘become ‏צדיקים‎ to begin with. For a human being is endowed with a great
many potentialities, and it is much easier for a person to wax wealthy with-
‏שי‎ out the help of God than it is for him to become a prt without such
Divine assistance. The ‏צדיק‎ himself will know best of all how much he
— owes to the helping hand of the Lord in his struggle with temptation. The
thought here is, then, “Even as the Lord has already accomplished great
-- things, standing by them and delivering them from temptation, so He will
| now certainly grant them the much smaller favor of delivering them from