By David. A Psalm. ‏ל קרי‎ 0 -
A 2) 1 have waited for the Lord ‏יה מש אל‎ op ‏קה‎ ₪
in the past, striving after Him, and ‏קט וחרפ‎
He inclined to me and heard my phew ‏השע‎
‎ory.
‎3) He has raised me up from yep ‏ויעלני ז מְבָוּר שא‎ 6
the pit of desolation, from the BP ‏לי מנר שא‎
PSALM XL
5 9. 1. | ‏לדוד מזמור‎ see Psalm 25:1. According to our sages (Pesachim
0 117a), the superscription ‏מזמור‎ 717 denotes that ‏שרתה עליו שכינה ואחר כך‎
‏.אמר שירה‎ Unlike the superscription ‏מזמור לדוד‎ which implies that David
used the medium of song to help him attain the rapture that can be derived
from God's nearness, the heading ‏לדוד מזמור‎ indicates that David has already
‏שי‎ ‘een inspired by God’s presence and that he used the song to express the
thoughts and emotions that came to him as a result of this glorious ex-
perience. ‘The first half of this psalm, and the first few verses of the second,
would lead us to believe that David was at the height of purest bliss at the
v time he uttered these words, But if we read beyond Verse 12, we will sce
that, actually, this song was written when David was oppressed by dangers
and very much in need of deliverance. In the midst of these woes, David
‏ש‎ recalls the many previous instances in which God has delivered him from
similar situations and he is strengthened and inspired thereby. These me-
mories of past deliverance, too, recall to David's mind that he has always
striven to apply his own understanding of God's ways for purposes of his
‏ש‎ own spiritual conoblement as well as for the edification of his people and
that of mankind in general. Thus, even in the midst of peril and affliction,
David's soul is filled with Divine inspiration. The Lord has shown David
‏ש‎ that He is indeed ‏מנצה‎ He Who, by endowing man with spiritual fortitude,
can exalt him victoriously above all earthly misery and inspire him to sing
a hymn of gladsome rapture.
‘V. 2, ‏ה'‎ np, mp. mp is a combination of ‏קל‎ and ‏.פיעל‎ The ‏קל‎
‎4 form means “to strive after” God; the ‏פיעל‎ with the accusative, is “striving
to bring God closer to us.” The thought of this verse, then, is, “I have
often boped that, even as 1 raised my own spitit heavenward, the Lord,
—— too, would come neater to me. And indeed, I have not been deceived in
| ty hopes, for He has inclined Himself toward me and heard my cry.”
YY. 3. ‏וגו'‎ ube. ‏שאון‎ derived feam swe fia hannma dacalate 7