Carries assurances Of good wu anc Of righteousness on the tip of iis tongue,
‘but what is beneath his tongue, that which remains within him and activates
his tongue is nothing but mischief and violence. For ‏,מרמה‎ derived from ‏,רמה‎
‎see Comm. to Gen. 29:25. ‏תוך ,תך‎ is “the midst", that point which is equi-
distant from the surface of all sides and which therefore can be reached only
with the same degree of difficulty from any side of the object; ie., that which
is hidden or malicious.

5 ‏משב וגל .8 יר‎ It is doubtful that this description is intended to
refer to actual murder and highway robbery. Thus far the evil man has been
depicted as a crafty worker of deceit, who feigns fear of the Lord. This is
borne out in every respect by the last sentence of this description; 56. ‘Verse
10, ‏וגו'‎ nv ‏.ידכה‎ All this points more to those misdeeds and transgressions

Vv committed in our relationships with our fellow men that often do not even
come within the province of human courts of justice. We hardly think that
the above verse could refer to such acts as murder and armed robbery, the

‎perpetrators of which have placed themselves beyond the pale of society and‏ ש
‎aust live in fear of prosecution by human justice even if God's judgment‏
‎much like‏ ,במסתרים יהרג נקי ‎holds no terrors for them. It seems to us that‏
‎(Deut. 27:24) speaks of a type of “social murder” that‏ ארור מכה רפהו בסתר.

‎Vv is committed by the bloodless weapons of slander and malice. ‏חצרים‎ are
localities that are inhabited. The houses of the streets in these places were
grouped into ‏,חצרים‎ “courts”, of three or four houses cach. To “sit in the

‎lurking-places of the courts” simply means to make oneself at home in‏ ש
‎domestic circles and to become well acquainted with the most intimate‏
‎affairs of familics by means of social intercourse with the inhabitants of the‏
‎neighborhood.‏

‎Vv ‏צפן .עיניו לחלכה יצפנר‎ is actually an active form meaning “to hide”,
“to conceal”. Then, in the intransitive form, it means “to be hidden” or,
rather, “to hide in order to turk”. ‏,הלכה‎ Thy bost, as in ‏וגלות החל הזה וגו'‎

‎(Obadiah 1:20), and also in Verse 15. abn. By “Thy host” is meant those‏ ש
‎described above, put themselves without reserva-‏ רשע ‎who, as opposed to the‏

‎008 tions at the Lord’s command, who think only of discharging their task and of
doing their duty. It is for such men in particular that the eyes of the ‏רשע‎

‎-- are on the watch. They are the prime object of his feeling of hatred. It is

‎| generally felt, too, that such men of simple honesty are easy prey foc any