“to wither” (see Commentary to Gen. 34:7, Exod. 18:17), denotes th
disappearance of unfettered mocal strength. Man no longer draws from lis |
sense of duty the power to master his urges and desires and to be a free
agent as regards his moral acts. Like a withered leaf, he has become te
‏שי‎ plaything of influence from within and without. He has lost his free ‏חס‎
‎self-determination and thus has forfeited the divine spark within him. Al
his thoughts and aspirations have succombed to a sort of physical slavery.
‏ש‎ For it is not intellect which raises man above the rest of Creation or elevaiss
him (o the level of “the image of God". Intellect is a faculty that he shares
with any lowly beast. What makes him similar to God is the ability to say
“no” to evil despito all its glamor, It is his joyous determination to s37
‏שי‎ “yes” to all that is good, regardless of the hardships and sacrifices involved.
It is this free personal mastery over his physical sphere of inflvence on earth
which makes man similar to God and which implants in bis breast the real-
zation that he was indeed created in the image of God, of the One Whose
Vv workings and sovereignty in nature and in history are clearly evident to hin.
But when this spirit of morally free self-confidence, that spark of the Divine,
disappears from his heart, then man will also lose all consciousness of tht
‏שי‎ Divine—a thought which will then be inconvenient to him. A world grows
‘yan has often asserted that ‏אלקו'‎ Px. The result of this has been
‏,השחיתו התעיבו עלילה‎ that they let their actions, unchecked, become
morally depraved; their deeds have become an abomination since they are in
Vv direct opposition to what God requires of them, 7*¥y, as has been previously
noted, is not one isolated act, but rather the whole range of endeavors, the
mode of behavior. ‏השחית‎ is the most descriptive expression for moral deprav-
—— ity, spiritual decadence (see Commentary to Gen, 6:12). ‏השהתה‎ is ₪
| exact antithesis of evil to the moral calling of man, just as tho concept of