ספר שני
זא ‎PSALM‏

1) To Him Who grants victory, ‏קרח‎ yp ‏למ‎ a ‏פב‎

0% an instruction from the sons of 7" wa? ‏ללס משכל‎

Korah,
BOOK TWO
PSALM XLII

‎see Psalm 32:1; thus, a psalm the contents of which‏ משכיל ,1 ער
‎are the descendants‏ בני קרח ,לבגי קרח ‎should become known to all the people,‏
‎of that man who was destroyed because he openly rebelled against God and‏ 5
‎against the institutions which He had appointed for Israel. The “sons of‏
‎Korah,” with their fervent enthusiasm for God and devotion to Israel's‏
‎destiny, had the rare ability to compose songs that awaken in Israel a re-‏
‎cognition of God, and inspired love for Him. Many hands have plucked‏ שי
‎at harps dedicated to the praise of the Lord, but few instruments have‏
‎sounded forth with such sublime music rooted so firmly in the spirit of the‏
‎nation as the lyre of the Koraides. Here we find expression, from the very‏
‎Vv heart of Israel, of the thoughts and emotions that came to the people in‏
‎both joy and sorrow, songs which can contribute to the spiritual education‏
,כנסת ישראל ‎of the nation at all historical times. In this psalm, too, we have‏
‎the Jewish nation in exile, that attempts to still its yearning for God with a‏ ש
‎wistful glance back into its remote past, and then to derive comfort from‏
‎its firm faith that, one day, it will come to see that even the dark days of‏
‎exile in which it now finds itself, will serve eventually to advance its ultimate,‏
‎Vv tue salvation. See Num. 26:11 and Commentary ibid. (Reference is made‏
‎there to the Commentary to Psalm 17, Verse 3. However, in the commentary‏
‎to that verse, we omitted the notation that the rebellion, which was intended‏
‎to shake the foundations of God's altar, would eventually serve to fortify‏ שי
‎that altar instead, a fact that was proven abundantly in later Jewish history.‏
‎Tt was our feeling that this thought was clearly implied by the fact that the‏
‎of the Divine altar).‏ צפוי ‎of the Koraide rebels were used for the‏ מחתות.
‎a, While their father and all bis followers perished, the sons‏ קרה לא מתר ‎Vv‏
‎of Korah rose up to pay homage to truth once more and therefore they‏
‎were saved from destruction. This miracle of their deliverance seems to‏
]ו ‎have awakened within them that divine inspiration which was to mark‏ =
‎descendants for centuries to come. This seed of Korah produced some of‏
‎the most forceful and brilliant supporters and advancers of the very work,‏ |