na =
393 ‏תחלים נז‎
trustingly hide myself in the - :
Shadow of ‘Thy wiogs unt that WEY TRY ARP PP TED
which is now being shaped shall rnhp “an

“A have passed.
3) I will call unto God, the ON wey, cob) NPE
‘Most High, to the Almighty One ‏'ל''‎ 7" roy ea
that decrees my fate. / ‏ואי‎ 4
4) He will send from heaven 957) “hwy toner nbyh 4
and save me, He Whom the one ‏4להים. המד‎ nbyh ‏סלה‎
‎that strains after me blasphemes /?~ ‏ו של למ‎ - bal
— God will send forth His mercy SM
and His faithfulness, \

3 5) As for me, amidst tions Tlie ‏אָשֶכְכָה‎ SDP YNZ! wha 6
down peacefully, beside those who pean MW mys ‏לְהָטים‎
‎are aflame with rage, sons of man “mn ‏חרב‎ gies oar
whose teeth are spears and arrows, 2m oy ‏ולְשונֶם‎ oye

‎and whose tongue is a sharp sword.‏ ש
‎is “that which they scheme,” “that‏ הוות ‎with moral and spiritual fortitude.‏ שי
‎which is now being shaped” (see Psalm 5:10).‏
‎“God, in the rule of His judgment, seems far away‏ .אקרא וגר' ‏ .3 לד
‎from me, remote in the heights. Yet,” David declares, "1 still call upon Him‏
‎Vv from the depths of the cave in which I am now hiding, and I shall call on‏
‎no one else but Him, for He és the Omnipotent, the One Who will decide‏
‎‘what my fate shatl be.”‏
‎“The enemy pursues me greedily because,‏ הרף ‎‘pew‏ .ישלת וג = ‎V.4.‏ שי
‎despite my innocence, he believes me to be defenseless. By s0 doing, he‏
‎blasphemes God, for God, even though He may test innocent men by‏
‎causing them pain, still preserves His mercy and His faithfulness to those‏
‎Vv that are free of guilt.”‏
‎wer, “They do not know that I do not fear thei‏ גר ,5 ‎V.‏
‎the gnashing of their teeth or the‏ ,(להטים) ‎violence (ora), their wrath‏
‎slander of their tongue. On the contrary, I He down beside them quietly‏ ש
‎and without fear.” Literally “beside them,” because they have already‏

‎--- encamped in the cave (quite close to David’s hiding place). Perhaps the
teeth are mentioned here in conjunction with the tongue as organs of
speech. David has made reference here to the men ebout Saul who, by

‎| their slander and baiting, incite Saul’s hatred against him, so that these men,