that 1 bring sacriices, and ‏בש 6“ 7 טסםת1‎ hey
dost not desire ascent offerings. . ₪ By ‏על 0 לֶא‎

nN 19) The [proper] offering to raya omy ‏אֶלְתִים‎ nyt 9
God is a broken spirit; a broken ‏ב‎ mi meting: nt nd
and a contrite heart, © God, Thou IP TARA BY
wilt not despise,

20) First do Thou good in Thy JET TP MET 0
favor unto Zion, build Thou the ber ‏חומות‎ mia
walls of Jerusalem,

‎restoring me to Thy favor, Thou wilt have opened my lips and I shall be‏ ב
‎moan.”‏ ה' ‎able to continue my task of declaring‏

‎“For it is not appropriate for men in my position‏ .°3 לא ‎‘a1‏ .18 ל

‎to bring offerings.” ‏הטאת‎ can atone only for ‏,שוגג‎ but not for ‏,מזיד‎ wrong

‎that is intentionally committed. “And other sacrifices which are brought‏ ש
‎can be offered only by men who have not sunk as low as I have,”‏ נדבה ‎aS‏
‎nyw; they are not‏ עם ה' ‎presuppose a sense of being‏ שלמים" ‎says David.‏

‎ring,‏ נדבה ‎appropriate to a spirit that is as contrite as mine is now.” And‏ ש
‎the offering that symbolizes the striving toward greater moral perfection‏
‎(a positive commandment) but‏ ,עשה ‎can be made in cases of neglect of an‏
‎never in atonement for sins against prohibitions Jaid down by God.‏

‎4 V. 19. ‘ui ‏מבתי‎ “The true sacrifice that God, our Judge, expects
of us, is a spirit broken by the awareness that we have sinned. Thou wilt
surely not despise the broken and contrite heart with which I now appear

‎before Thy throne of judgment, for my repentance paves the way for the‏ שי
‎improvement which it is Thy desire to bring about by means of Thy‏
‎judgments.”‏

‎God has prescribed two categories‏ .הימיכה זגו' ‎1a.‏ וגו" .21 ,20 ‎V.‏ ש
חטאת ואשם ‎nen,‏ ואשם .0 ‎and‏ עולה מנתה ושלמים ‎of sacrifices in the Torah; a.‏
‎are offerings necessitated by the sins of men; therefore, it is not the offering‏
‎itself that the Lord desires. Offerings of that nature are meant only to‏

‎v serve as means to help the worshipper in his efforts to regain such a moral
Jevel that would make him worthy of Divine favor once more. ‏עולה מנתה‎

‎—_ ‏רשלמים‎ are of value only if they are ‏מבחי צדק‎ if they presuppose a life and
— conduct marked by righteousness and loyalty to duty which the worshipper
wishes to maintain and in which he is constantly striving for further self-
improvement. It is not by means of ‏קרבנות‎ that Zion and Jerusalem shall