that 1 have experienced in the past and which i still sec today. When 1 look
‏בי‎ back in retrospect upon the fate that has befallen the nations that were
hostile to me and to my way of life, when I see how, once they reached the
zenith of power, they disappeared as suddenly as they had risen, then 1
sealize that it is before Thy presence and Thy countenance; 1.6, before Thy
‏ש‎ Sovereignty and Thy ultimate ends, that they stumble and perish.”

‘V. 5.  ינידו ‏.בי עשית משפטי‎ “With every event during which a power
that rose to the zenith of greatness disappeared forever from the proscenium
of history," says David, “Thou hast executed ‏ודיני‎ cuppa. T have scen this

Vv happen to nation after nation in the course of the progress of the world.”
Israel was dependent sofely upon the spiritual perception of truth and the
moral discharge of life's duties, all subordinated to God. ‘Therefore, from the

v start of its wanderings among the nations of the earth, Isracl found that its
views were diametrically opposed to those of all the other states which built
their power and prosperity primarily on material force and grandeur and
which exploited moral considerations only as means to their own ends. But

Vv this contrast between Israel and the nations shall gradually disappear.
Eventually all nations, states and individuals alike shall scek and find their
happiness solely in a life of duty subordinated to God’s moral Law, in har-

Vv monious accord with those principles that Israel has always held aloft in the
snidst of alien nations. Every time an empire built upon neglect of the moral
Jaw and based on violence crumbles into ruin, the world is brought one step
nearer to the goal of the future of all the nations. It is a warning to the

4 nations, as proctaimed in the passages that follow. That is why Israel sees

—____ in every such historical event ‏,עשית משפטי‎ an epoch of history bringing closer
the just vindication of those principles Israel has always held aloft. But it

-- is also said ‏.ודיני‎ The contrast, the protest against their own acts which was
| ‘Brought home to the nations by Tsrael’s firm convictions and its way of life,

gave rise to that hatred, based on misunderstanding. from which Israel has