feol invincible; let the nations feel spree Oe eR
judged because they opposed Thee,
oN - ‏ה‎
‎dered “the people of God” helpless, at the mercy of their will, (ax is
derived from ‏,אבה‎ “to submit”, that which submits to everything because it
has no will of its own; sce Commentary to Deut. 15:4). They lose sight of
the Lord because they sce His people under their heels as ‏,אביון‎ and believe
that God has forsaken them. But they ere mistaken; the weak shall not be
forgotten, They shall be remembered even before the coming of the Day of
Final Judgment, so that the ‏,עניים‎ the poor and the destitute, shall not lose
hope forever, Herc, as opposed 10 Verse 13, the word 15 spelled ‏ענוים‎ and
/ thus indicates a thought opposed to the one expressed in Verse 13, In that
5 verse the sufferers among the nations are called amy as opposed to their
despotic rulers. They sccm to be the humble ones, but actually they are
bumble only because they are ‏,עניים‎ poor in power and position. If they
would ever come to power themselves, they would use it for the same sinful
‏שי‎ ends as do those at whose hands they are now suffering. In Verse 19,
however, the sons of Isracl scem to be the ‏עניים‎ among the nations, those
who are poor and dependent, whose very “being” is dependent upon the
space and permission granted them by the other nations for this purpose.
‏ש‎ But actually they are ‏עניים‎ only because they are ‏נענדים‎ because of their con-
victions and principles which they cherish, they desist from the ways that
would 1080 them to power and fame. Reconciled with theie Divincly-ordained
‏שי‎ exile, they would humbly forego all the glitter and grandeur that this world
holds, rather than neglect their dulics toward God and His commandments.
11 they would not be py, if theic ambition would be stronger than their
sense of duty, they would have ceased to be ‏עניים‎ Jong ago, and would have
‏ש‎ walked alongside the other nations on the path to the dizzying heights of
earthly might,
It did not seem necessary to add the x» from the first sentence also to
‏שי‎ ‘ann in the second sentence, ‏תקות וגו‎ may be understood to be a hypotheti-
cal postsctipt, “est the hope of the poor would be lost forever.”
‘V. 20. | ‏.קומה ה' וגו"‎ Sce Chapter 7:7. This is a call to God, urging
Him to give sharp warning to the overbearing tyrants by means of His own
‏ש‎ direct intervention in the course of the history of nations, and thus make
them realize how impotent they actually are in His sight. “Intervene, lest
man, degenerate in violence, will think he is ty, invincible.” yun ‏,על‎ see
——_ Commentary to Gen. 16:12. There we stated that ‏על פני‎ often dcnotes some-
thing that is hateful, that is opposed to someone. Thus we also read here,
“Let the nations feel judged because of their onnasition ta Then”. | =