one blow, and it is only the hostility of one single person that he deplores.

Therefore it is hardly likely that “the city,” depraved in violence, strife

and deceit as described in Verses 10—12 should be the hostile element

from which David must now fear impending danger. Moreover, it is quite

obvious that these verses refer to corruption “within” the city, which

undermines the welfare of the city itself, rather than to a rebellion against

David, who is, after all, outside its walls. It seems to us that these three

verses, rather than forming an indictment against a specific foo, serve to

portray the motives that lead David to long for solitude and to wish to dwelt

‎in the desert rather than to remain in the midst of human society. The‏ ב
‎here denotes human society as opposed to the isolation of the‏ עיר ‎word‏

‎desert, and ‏,לשון‎ “the tongue” denotes that organ which serves as a means

‎of communication between men for purposes both good and evil. ‏,ראית‎ 5

‎David, “So far as my eyes can see, I have perceived nothing but violence

‎v and strife ‘in human society.” Therefore he calls upon God to intervene,
even 85 He intervened at the building of the Tower of Babel, to inhibit and

‎prevent the further development of mankind along such lines, ‏,כלע‎ literally

‎meaning “to swallow up”, is often used in the sense of “utterly subduing”‏ שי
‎a foe. 340, “to divide,” alludes to the division of mankind into many peoples‏

‎and language groups at the site of the Tower of Babel (Gen. 10:25).

‎Dayid’s use of the name of ‏אדני‎ in calling upon God to intervene seems to

‎v indicate that David conceived of his calling as a singer as being dedicated
to the cause of the moral betterment of mankind. However, when he bebeld

‎the corruption that prevailed among men, he despaired of ever being able

‎to fulfill this task and felt that only an act of God could make men mend‏ שי
‎their ways, .‏

‎tor. Day and night the people walk around the walls and‏ וג

‎Keep on the watch for enemies that might attack the city from without,‏ ש
‎and they do not realize that they actually harbor the greatest peril to their‏

‎welfare even now within their walls. This danger is called tk, and, as a

‎consequence, ‏קמל‎ is the inevitable fate of human society. (See Commentary

‎to Num. 23:21), nau: Transactions between men should take place‏ שי
‎out in the streets, in the open places, where no one can injure his brother,‏

‎--- and everyone may pursue his own justified goals in the open. Instead, all
this goes on in ‏תוך‎ and ‏תוך ,מרמה‎ is “concealment of thoughts end in-

‎tentions” and ‏מרמה‎ is “the destruction of one’s brother by taking advantage

‎| of bis guilelessness.” See Pazlm 10:7, Cf, Isaiah 59:14 nox ‏ברחוב‎ abe ‏.בי‎