------ ‏ה‎ il -
generation, Thy omnipotence to
all that are to come,

25, Jevel that is unattainable to him who has sever sinned at all. ‏במקום שבעלי‎
‏צדיקים גמורים יבולים לעמוד‎ PR ‏,תשובה עומדין‎ God can blot out happenings as
if they had never occurred, so that past sins will not leave scars upon the
physical Life of the sinner or upon his spirit, This suspension of the law of
cause and effect for the sake of the ‏בעל תשובה‎ is the greatest of all of God's

Vv wondrous works. It can be wrought only by Him Who Himself has instituted
this Jaw in His world, He Who is ‏מערכות‎ Trzp, Who holds the world and its
course in His hands. It is an act of Divine omnipotence which can be truly

‎experienced and sensed only by a man who, like David, has become a true‏ ש
‎the specific‏ ,כפרה ‎bya and thus has become master over his past. For‏ תשוב
‎designation for this extraordinary act of mp7, is simply a stronger form of‏

‎“a power” that can overcome the past and “bury” it.‏ ,גבורה 2 ‎It is‏ .קבר ,גבר שי
‎(CE. Commentary to Gen. 6:14, Exod. 32:30, Leviticus 16:30, et al.) CE‏
‎Psalm 51:16,‏

‎“O God, Thou hast taught me thus from my youth,‏ .אלקיי וגה, .17 ‎‘V.‏ ש
‎and even to this day, when men think that the bond which unites me with‏
‎Thee has been broken, F declare Thy wondrous works in this manner. I‏
‎tell men of the ways in which Thou dost demonstrate Thy might in every‏

‎Vv aspect of their fate and in every experience of their lives.”

‎V. 18. ‘a1 an. “And even now that I have grown older, and even
unto extreme old age, should I be spared untif such time, forsake me not,”

‎Vv David prays. “Forsake me not untit such time as I shall have told my con-
temporaries of the strength of Thy ‘arm,’ how Thou canst reach into the

‎₪ mesh of the law of cause and effect and rescue a man who seemed doomed

‎a to perish because of his past sins. Let me tell every man yet to come, of
the overwhelming might which Thou dost reveal in the ‏צדקה‎ granted to sinful

‎| man for the sake of his spiritual rebirth.”