determine the degree, great or small, of the moral worth I have attained
thus far, 2200 and test me to see whether I would be capable of achieving
3 still more. Consider what I am now and teach me to progress further still
(see Psalm 7:10). ‘Then, in accordance with what ‘Thou wilt have found,
‏צרפה‎ purify my sensual urges ‏(כליותי)‎ and my higher thoughts and desires’*
‏לבי)‎ see Psalm 73:21). The 3 in the word 47%, phonetically related to 970,
expresses the overcoming of resistant slags by means of fire. Here the

‎unabbreviated, meaning to say, “do not spare me, if chastise-‏ ,צרופה ‎word is‏ ש
‎ment is necessary for my moral ennoblement.”‏

‎V. 3. Su ‏.כר חסדך‎ “The goal before my eyes has never been to

‎Thy‏ חסרך ‎obtain the approval or favor of men, but only to be worthy of‏ ש
‎mercy. In order to attain this goal, 1 have camestly walked in the truth‏
‎see Gen, 17:15.‏ התהלך ",תורה ‎revealed by Thee, in the ways of Thy‏

‎mentioned in‏ אמתך ‎is the opposite of‏ שוא ,לא ישבתי וג" .4 ‎V.‏ ש
‎Verse 3, and denotes that which is vain and transitory as regards both value‏
‎are people who have no worth at all for the preseat‏ מתי ‎and permanence.‏
‎and are of value only insofar as they serve as a transition to coming genera-‏

‎4 tions that may be superior to them. (See Psalm 17:14). mw ‏מתי‎ are those
who have no conception of the deeper meaning of life and have room in
their minds only for vain and transitory things. It is impossible to avoid

‎contact with such people but “I have never sat down with them, I have not‏ ש
‎ever intentionally dwelt in their company, I have always avoided the com-‏
‎men who do not fear God, but who do dread men and‏ נעלמים ‎pany of‏
‎therefore find it necessary to dissemble their true nature and character from‏

‎4 the eyes of other persons.”

‎--- V. 5, ‏,שגאתי וג"‎ There is no moral or social evil that does not
appear Iess brutal in the cyes of the world once it has become widespread

‎_ among larger circles. That which an individual would not take the liberty
| of doing himself scems unobjectionable to him once it has become a general