Deous VIEWS My very M27 was a source of danger to mc. 1 ‏טזטם‎ was Canger
that this outward ‏שלוה‎ might give rise to inner ‏,של‎ inertia, indifference to
moral evil” (the root ‏שלה‎ is a significant combination of both these concepts).
5. “At that time, fortunately, God, in His fatherly, disciplining love which
watched over me, snatched me from the peril of such error by disturbing
my state of happiness and prosperity, and taught me as follows:”
ny ‏,בהררם שעיר .ה' ברצוגך . . . להררי‎ in Gen. 14:6, according to
"x, is Piel infinitive, like mana, and means “while they mounted up toward
Vv Seir.” Consequently, ‏הרי עז‎ would mean “my climbing up to power, my
‘ascent to power.” ‏העמדתה‎ means “Thou didst grant support,” ‏ברצונך‎ “because
Thou hast taken pleasure in my moral endeavors, Thou hast viewed my
‏שי‎ ascent to power with favor. I was to find out that only ‏,רצון ה'‎ Divine
favor, the attainment of which is the ultimate Jesson of our Sanctuary, would
provide a firm foundation and would be essential for any progress I might
wish to make.” If we wish to interpret ny as the object of ‏,העמדתה‎ the
Vv thought would be, “Thou didst give power to my ascent”; 1. 6. “Thou didst
constantly grant power to my ascent,” or, rather, because “317 would then
‘be the singular substantive as ‏הררי אל‎ is in the plural, “Thou didst con-
Vv stantly grant power to my height.” The accent mark, which closely connects
‏עד‎ and ‏,הרי‎ would support the first interpretation. given.
‘Mati ‏.הסתרת‎ “No longer didst Thou find me worthy of Thy special
‏ש‎ care, and thus my happy state immediately ended; I was overcome by
fright.”  להבנ, ‏בהל‎ related to bya, “to overpower,” is an inner sense of
being overwhelmed, the feeling of complete defeat at the hands of a power
threatening destruction.
Vv ‏וג‎ pon. “This experience, however, taught me to turn away from
all my superficial human relationships, back to the Lord, Who is ever ready
_ 40 grant a new future to those who seek it, ‏.ואל אדני אתחנן‎ By means of
constant self-improvement, I endeavor to make myself worthy of God as
amy master and of His ‏,חן‎ His favor.” (See Deut. 3:23). ‏ה‎ and ‏אדני‎ are the
| two names to which ‏זכר קדשו‎ in Verse 5 refers.