‘Dencath their power, 50 iat the glory Of God wih once more ‏ה‎ pen
earth during the glorious future era in which 311 men shall live.
V.10. "xi ‏.ועוד מעט‎ The life of the lawless is ficetingty short, even
5, when measured in terms of present-day life on earth, and most certainly when
0 viewed against the broad span of the futuce in which, as we are told in
‘Verse 9, God-oriented men will live on because of what they have achieved
in this world. ‏ואינגו‎ iyo ‏.והתבוגנת על‎ His existence does not exceed the
brief span of his sojourn on earth. You will vainly seek a trace of him at
Vv the place where he still stood such a short time ago. He has accomplished
nothing that might have lived on alter him and assured him perpetuity
throughout all the days to come.
‘Ve 11. a ‏.וענוים‎ Unlike the ‏מצליח דרכו עשה מזמות‎ (Verse 7),
Vv the ‏ענוים‎ are aware of the inadequacy of human strength and understanding,
and therefore they submit to God without reservations. They “wish to be
only that which God wanted them to be, and nothing else.” For this reason
‏ש‎ they had to stand back humbly as long as the rest of mankind, who had
turned away from God, held the reins of power. But, when one day the
rule of the lawless shall vanish from the earth, then all the happy future
‏ש‎ of the world shall belong to the nay, and they will be able to enjoy the
abundance of that peace which will then fill Creation. Indeed, despite their
humble position in today's society, or perhaps even because of it, the
‏ענוים‎ of this present day are even now ‏יורשי ארץ‎ the true conquerors and
‏ש‎ inheritors of the earth, or rather of that modest part of the carth which is
their portion, For they train their own physical and material possessions
and faculties for this role of championship, They apply them to the task
‏ש‎ of planting the seeds of the Divine into earthly things and of paving the way
for God's kingdom on carth, and thus impress the stamp of eternal value
— even upon that which seems ficcting and transitory. Even in the humblest
circumstances in the midst of the troubles that are so much a part of the
--- present day world, a life filled with such good endeavors will insure inner
| peace and serenity to him who leads it. The peace of mind of the righteous
‘man is a blissful state little understood br *h= ---# 5 the mactd