when distress was mine, ee
been adequately “watered” by these means, the Lord will lead Israel out
of the ‏,מצודה‎ of the centuries of exile in order that Israel may blossom and
grow on the ground which had been properly readied for this purpose
during Israe!’s dispersion. Most probably, however, ‏רוית‎ generally means
‏ב"‎ richly provided abundance” as in ‏כוסי רזיה‎ (Psalm 23:5). In other
words, David speaks to God as follows, “Once Thou wilt have ‘tested and
- refined us’ through harsh exife, Thou wilt not only open our ‘cage,’ but,
in contrast to the hardships of centuries, Thou wilt Jead us forth to abundance
and plenty, In this manner we shall have the opportunity to prove our
loyalty to Thee amidst freedom and happiness, once we shall have passed
adequately the test of confinement and misfortune.” Here follows Verse 13,
Vv in which the psalmist states that “once 160 forth to freedom and plenty,
I shall devote all of my life not to the enjoyment of my newly-won pros-
perity, but ‏וגו'‎ mK.”
‏וגל ,14 ,13 ער שי‎ max, Israel says, “In exile, I was deprived of the
means for the symbolic expression of the act of consecration, the sacrificial
ritual. Robbed of my independence, far away from the soil of the Law, I
could fulfill the requirements of this Law in my service to God in daily life
‏ש‎ only to a very limited extent. It was not only Israel that was in Galuth—
nay, the Torah, too, was exiled together with Israel. Once released from
the cage of Galuth, my senses will not rush to enjoy the freedom and plenty
‏ש‎ which will then be mine, All my newly-won liberty and abundance shall
serve me solely as a means to enable me to fulfill Thy Law faithfully and
in its entirety, seeing that I shall then again have the possibility to do so.
All my freedom and all my material possessions shall have some value only
‏ש‎ if 1 use them to fulfill in their entirety those pledges and resolutions which
I made before Thee during the time of my trials in exile. Therefore my
first act upon my liberation shall be to enter Thy House, which shall then
‏ש‎ ‘be open once again for me to enter. I shall come there with the ascent
offering which serves as the symbolical expression of my constant upward
—— striving, my endcavor to attain perfection in the fulfillment of my duty,
And then I shall so live as to carry out those resolutions which 1 had
--- pledged to Thee ut the time of my distress.” ‏,פצו‎ derived from ‏פצה‎ (even
| though ‏מלעיל‎ as in ‏תָער מדבר ;37:20 3918 -בעטן כָלו‎ 1 6