one specific enemy of Israel in particular, but to the character of a nation
that is inimical to mankind and jeopardizes the welfare of other peoples,
\ just as Verse 3 of Psalm 8 refers 10 individuals that represent a similar danger,
‏,נצה ב‎ derived from nx3, “to be victorious”; ‏לנצת‎ actually means “to victory”;
5.6 in the future which will have overcome the past, a future emerging victo-
tiously from the depths of the past. “At that future day which is the ultimate
destination of all history,” says David, “all the destruction by which the
‏שי‎ nations now strive to attain power shall come to an end. Destruction is not
the means by which nations should prove their steength. As for the cities
which you succeeded in laying waste, their memorial was lost cven before.”
nen, meaning ‏המה‎ 03, of: “their memorial was already lost when ‘they’ still
‏ש‎ existed, before you ever turned them into ruins.” That which can be mado
to perish with a world-conquering kick of the foot must have been based
‘upon a principle that had no future to begin with. It is merely the case of a
‏ש‎ stronger tyrant overcoming a weaker despot. Such a victor is merely a tool
in the hands of God for the destruction of something that is doomed to ruin
just as be himself must eventually fall. Rome could have come to its senses
at the ruins of Carthage and could have learned to practice moderation. Thus
‏ש‎ Balaam says (Num. 24:24( ‏.וצים מיד כתים וענו אשור וענו עבר וגם הוא עדי אבד‎
(Sec Comm.), And God speaks to Sanherib through the mouth of Isaiah,
‏.ותהי להשאות גלים נצים ערים בצורות.‎ God has permitted him to lay waste only
‏שי‎ those cities which were only heaps of rubble to begin with, ruins that were
obstacles to the welfare of other nations. (Isaiah 37:26). Also (ibid. 9:4):
‏,והיתה לשרפה מאכלת אש‎ “Only that which is food for fire shall be burnt.”
‏שי‎ V. 8. ‏.וה' לקולם ישב‎ But God is resting; He shall not intervene direct-
‏עד‎ until that future judgment day, but He is making His throne ready for that
= ‘Day of Judgment. The events of the present are only preparations for that
time.
‏,תבל .זהוא ישפט 31" .9 .ער‎ derived from ‏,בלל‎ “to mix”, denotes the
| world of mankind in all its present confusion, its state of lawless chaos, as
‏יווקו‎ haa ge ee