------ ET 942/ ‏יר‎
‎He helps those who remain ‏-קט‎ 99007 ORE * 9 0
right in heart. ‏שררלב:‎

oN ee
testing for content, quality, strength and endurance, Therefore the term ‏נסה‎
‎is used only in reference to human beings or to God, while the word ‏בחן‎ is also
‘employed with reference to the testing of things or materials, such as metals.
‏אבן בחך‎ is a proven stone which is capable of withstanding the effects of the
elements and of bearing the stress to which it is subjected, ‏לכות‎ and ‏:כליות‎
‏לב‎ is the scat of the more lofty emotions, feeling and impulses. The ‏כליות‎ are
the center of the physical urges and desires (see Comm. to Lev. 3:4). God
tests our moral aspirations and our physical desires by subjecting us to suf-
2S, fering. These are trials which serve only to purify us, to increase our moral
strength and resolution, and which thus more than compensate us, through the
spiritual gain they bring, for the tangible pleasures thus denied us. The
hostile, threatening action of the wicked is merely a tool used for the testing
‏שי‎ of man who is still in need of, and receptive to, moral purification and dis-
cipline. Thus evil, against the will and without the knowledge of those who
perpetrate it, is actually serving the moral welfare of mankind. “God has
Drought cverything into being for His own purposes; He even created the
Vv wicked man for the day of disaster” (with which He tests the righteous man),
‏כל פעל ה' למענהו וגם רשע ליום רעה‎ (Prov. 16:4). “The Great Master brings
everything into the world; He has fools and also sinners in His service.” ‏רב‎
‎v ‏מתולל כל ושכר כפיל ושבר עוברים‎ (Prov. 26:10). Therefore the Lord is still a
God of justice, even when He permits the wicked to do evil for the purpose
of testing and purifying the righteous man. It is significant that, in this verse,
Vv the expression used to designate God is changed to ‏.אלקים‎ In referring to the
sovereignty of God, becoming manifest, as it is called upon in Verse 7, the
Lord is always called by the name of ‏.ה'‎ Whea reference is made, however, to
v those facets of Divine Sovereignty that are apparent only to the thinking
mortal, to those aspects of His rule which guide the natural order of things
to his goal, the name for God that is employed is always ‏.אלקים‎ (See Comm.

‎to Exod. 6:2, 3; 13:17.( .‏ שי
‎(in‏ על אלקי' ישעי ‎Thus we also read nan‏ ,מגיני על ‎LL. pox‏ ער
‎Psalm 62:8). "My shield; ie. my protection, rests with the Lord.” He helps‏ ₪
‎those who pass the test attain enduring life, and He guides those who remain‏ =
‎upright in their thoughts and aspirations so that misfortune will not lead them‏

‎| to stray from the one path that is straight and true.