than of rational thought. In ‏שמך‎ 401, however, rational thought comes to
the fore; namely, the concept of the existence and sovereignty of God as is
indicated by His Name, Overwhelmed by God's overpowering majesty,
mankind first prostrates itself before Him. Men's emotions flow out toward
3 ‘Him in full force until they are raised to the level of conscious contemplation
of His nature and His sovereignty as expressed by His Name, and they give
expression to this thought to which the joyous emotion of homage has
given rise,
V. 5. ‏וג"‎ 1%. God did not entrust to coincidence this attainment
‏ש‎ of the eventual general “return” of mankind at which time they all will recog-
nize Him as their God and render Him homage as such, It was in order to
hasten this goal among all of mankind that He demonstrated His ways and
v His sovereignty in the history of Israel, Therefore the call to the nations,
‏"ספ‎ and “see” the workings of God in Israel's history, for the history of that
people contains facts, physically perceptible and irrefutable, which quite
clearly prove God’s rule and sovereignty. ‏עלילה‎ x73, ‏מעשה‎ is the completed
Vv act, the created work, soy, however, which is derived from ‏עלל‎ (see
Psalm 9:12), denotes the development of affairs and situations toward the
attainment of the form and shape as originally envisaged. It is the sowing
v and planting and cultivation, as it were, which leads to the “complete”
harvest as represented by the ultimate goal toward which all the devetop-
ments of world history are directed. It is above all in this nop, this
gradual mastering, reshaping and guiding of human affairs into the one path
Vv that leads to the Divine goal, that the power of God over man, which should
be feared by all who would dare resist it, is manifest,
V. 6. "WA. The power and majesty of God as seen in the
v events of world history are manifest in both the rise and the fall of Israel's
fortunes in the course of its wanderings through time, in ‏יציאת מצרים‎ as
--- well as ‏מ‎ mi. In order to establish Israel as a nation, God altered the
sea and the River Jordan. And this act was not only a demonstration of
His omnipotent power, but at the same time a manifestation of His rule of
| judgment and righteousness. 12 ‏,שם נשמחה‎ there, amidst these waters, Israel
ein ee ae ee ‏ו ו‎