5 ‏שר שי עה ,ער‎ SE 67 ade OAR ee
in commotion and why do the pray
peoples speculate in vain, Pon.

‘V. 6. ‏ובר‎ ym? %D, 37, “to take note” of, denotes God's con-
tinuing protective care. Thus 7273 ‏ידע לכתך‎ (Deut. 2:7). The wording
here is not ‏,כי יודע ה' צדיקים ורשעים יאבדו‎ but ‏.ודרך רשעים תאבד‎ The
path upon which the righteous walk, their entire way of life, is in accordance

25, with God's intent for all of mankind, and He will not allow it to perish. It
will constitute a subject of special attention for His rule of loving kindness.
‘This is why the ‏צדיקים‎ can be sure of their progress toward salvation. Their
way is the one which God desires, and therefore He will farther it, ‏דרך רשעים‎
Tarn, “the way of the lawless”, on the other hand, needs no special Divine

Vv intervention in order to be thwarted, It perishes by itself; it is hopeless from
the very beginning, because it lacks God’s loving care, ‏,תאבד.‎ “it loses itself”
in barrenness; it does not attain its goal. Therefore, in the last verse, the

‎was deemed sufficient without a reiterated explicit‏ דרך רשעים ‎mention of‏ שי
חטאים ‎After all, the ways of both are identical. The‏ ,הטאים ‎mention of the‏
‎do consciously and‏ רשעים ‎walk the same path in thoughtless frivolity as the‏
‎applies also to the‏ דרך רשעים תאכד ‎knowingly. Therefore the sentence of‏

‏.דרך חטאים ש

‎‘This entire chapter is a lesson conceming ‏האיש‎ "wr; Le., the question:

‎. To whom shall the future belong, and who shail truly stride forward to all
‏ש‎ the goals of mankind.
PSALM II

‎Verses 1 and 2. ‏.למה רגשו‎ This chapter and the one preceding it

‎v Delong together—in fact, according to Berachoth 9b, they form one single
psalm. Here the inferences for the lives of nations and the common future
‘of mankind are drawn from the statements in the preceding chapter concern-

‎lng the life of the individual. It was declared (in Psalm I) that there is a‏ שי
‎future only in loyal obedience to the Divine moral Law, because only ethical‏

‎--- and moral endeavor can be sure of God's help. All contrary paths, however,
in which disobedience and levity walk, shall forfeit their goal.

‎‘That which is true of the life of the individual applies equally to the

‎| lives of peoples and nations. One and the same law is applicable to both,