Commentary to Gen, 4:11( , ‏אשר פצו שפתי‎ are extraordinary pledges, prompt-
td by distress, as exemplified by Jephthah ‏פציתי טי‎ ‘oom (Judges 11:35.
‏ודבר פי בצר לר‎ are pledges and resolutions which were incumbent upon
Israel to carry out in accordance with its destiny, but Israel became aware
of them and took them to heart only in the midst of the sufferings of exile.
‏.עלות מיחים וגר  .15 יר‎ Now that the psalmist has made mention
5 of the resolutions which are to be fulfilled in daily life when exile is at an
end, we are given a more detailed description of the ‏עולות‎ which were
generally characterized in Verse 13 as the sacrifices that serve as the sym~-
bolic expression of the consecration of our every act. ‏,מיחים‎ derived from
Vv ‏,מיח‎ same as ma, is “marrow,” as in ‏חרבות מחים‎ (Isaiah 5:17) and the idea
is given added emphasis here by the complete spelling 01 ‏.מיחים‎ Israel says,
“Not with supesficial lip-service, but with all the ‘marrow of my bones’ shall.
I endeavor to fulfill the symbolic pledges that I directed heavenward.”
Vv Therefore the psalmist speaks of nD ‏עולות‎ “ascent offerings of marrow-
filled animals.” 9% is employed to denote the wealthy man, distinguished
by title and riches. (See"Commentary to Gen. 15:9, Lev. 5:25). It cor
‏ש‎ responds to the independence and wealth which came to the exiled nation
as a result of the Divine act described by ‏.ותוציאני לרויה‎ Not greedy egotism,
Dut ‏קטרת אילים‎ should come forth from such wealth, In the nvy ‏חלב‎ of
Vv the ‏אילים‎ even abundance and the urge to enjoy it should be tumed into
“the cultivation of the Divine element on carth as is pleasing in the eyes
of God,” ‏אשה ריח ניחוח לה'‎ ond, as is symbolized by the concept of ‏.קטרת‎
‏בקר שי‎ denotes the personality which “works in the field of God,” in the service
of the Lord, while ‏,עתודים‎ as the larger and more maturo animals of the
goat species, symbolize the trait of “resistance” against any diversion from
‏שי‎ unconditional obedience to God. This “resistance” is characterized by
the ‏עז‎ and ‏שפיר‎ that arc expressions in the terminology of the ritual of
--- sacrifice. Hence the offerings of ‏בקר‎ and ‏עתודים‎ give symbolic expression
to a sacred resolve as follows: Henceforth, Israel will prove itself to be a
“servant of God" in “unalterable loyalty, (Seo Commentary to Lev, 1:3,
| Numb. 7:17, 28:2(. .