is the antithesis of pleasure,

‎Px, that “no one docs good‏ עושת טוב ‎px. It is not said here‏ עשה-טוב
‎any longer”. Human society has never sunk to such depths. In every age,‏
‎even during times of extreme moral depravity, good things bave happened‏

‎5 con carth and some good deed can be found in the records of the life of even
the most corrupt of human beings. However, the good is done in a spirit
that does not spring from principles cherished or from a sense of duty; it
was not done simply for the sake of “doing good”. The performance of good
deeds does not shape the character of that man; it does not impress itself on

‎Vv his personality. Indeed, there are still men who do good, but there is none
who is a genuine “doer of good” who 5005 bis calling and the sum total of
his aspirations in doing naught but good. There are ‏טוב‎ my, but there is no

‎Vv ‏,עושה-טוב.‎ a combining form construction welded into one single concept
through the ‏.מקיף‎ If God and obedience to His will are not to be the
motivating forces of all our deeds, then, in the words of the prophet, all

‎goodness and brotherly love which we may practice, are like the flower of‏ ש
‎1M (Isaiah 40:6), which was neither sowed nor planted,‏ כציץ השדה ‎the field,‏
‎‘but owes its life to mere accident. Then goodness itself must go begging at‏
‎the doors of materialism, and morality, honesty and justice will need a letter‏

‎Vv of introduction from the spirit of selfish calculation of personal gain. Cunning
will then become the ruling idol, and once the Lord God is not tolerated
among men, the “doing of good” for its own sake will 8150 vanish from the

‎PR.‏ עועה-טוב ‎earth,‏ ש

‎“A, In such times of universal corruption, God, ‘n,‏ משמים ‎"x‏ ,2 יר

‎often looked down long and “probingly” from Heaven, In His great Jove

‎see Commentary‏ ,השקיף ‎He desires to educate man toward moral salvation.‏ שי
‎to Gen, 18:16.‏

‎— ‏.לראות זגו"‎ In His love, desiring to educate mankind, God waits for
aman to come to his senses by himself. Man can and should achieve recogni-
tion of God through the use of his own rational, reasoning intellect. The

‎| psalm does not say ‏,היש מאמין‎ but ‏.היש משכיל‎ Wherever the Holy Scriptures