--.- -
21) These things you have ‏עָלִיווְהָחְשְתִ ות‎ nbs ₪1
done and I have kept silent; theres "°° 7? HE TTF
adulterers,” the Lord continues. “But in principle you approve of theft
and adultery even as you bow to caprice which refuses to submit to law or
authority. You brazenly satisfy your selfish desires, even though you know
3S, very well that such a way of life is condemned by the Law of the Lord.”
0 “If you see a thief, wy yam then you ‘join your will or better still, ‘your
approval’ to his.” (Commentary to Lev, 26:34}. “You rejoice when you
note that the law about which you prate is not strong enough to subdue
the passions of men, and you point with pleasure to the licentious conduct
‏שי‎ of others as the excuse for your own lack of discipline.”
‏מנאפים חלקך‎ px. “You do not believe that there is a future punish-
ment for adultery, event as you are sure that you will never be punished
‏שי‎ for your own lawlessness.” Actually the Law of the Lord, with all its
Precepts and requirements, forms one inseparable whole. Every one of
God's statutes is of equal importance. Theft and adultery ase cited as
examples here simply because it is universally known that these are crimes
‏ש‎ against God's statutes, even as the ‏רשע‎ who is well-versed in the law is
quite well aware of the fact that what he does is contrary to God’s will.
V. 19, 20. ‘ay ‏תשב‎ An pp, “One can readily see,” the Lord tells
‏שי‎ the wicked man, “of how little value your erudition in the ‏תורה‎ is; indeed,
all of your scholarship is nothing but a degradation of the Torah, For that
same mouth with which you expound the laws of God and speak of the
duties imposed upon Israel by His covenant, you use for slander and deceit,
v the very crimes that this Iaw condemas in no uncertain terms.” ‏צמד‎ is
“to join something fast to another.” See Commentary to Num, 5.
‘The thought of the second part of Verse 19, then, would be, “Your tongue
‏ש‎ joins the ingredients of deceit so fast to one another that no one can
penetrate into this mass of lies and the core of fraud in its midst shall never
-- ‘be uncovered.”
‏.שר‎ 21. "a ‏.אלה עשית‎ “Your way of life has been thus for a long
time. And, because I have kept silent in the face of it until this day and
| it seemed to you that your lawless acts had gone unpunished, you believed