nd ies
361 + ‏תהלים‎
‎fore you thought that, in fact, 1 py serie ‏לת אהיה כמוף‎
was lke yoursell. Therefore 1 16 "PML ‏ל‎ * Sap ‏לת ד‎
prove you and set it before your ‏לַע‎
‎eyes.

“ 22) Now understand this, you Abe yes ‏בנרא ואת‎ ₪
who have forgotten God, lest 1 777 777 ‏מ‎ oa ce
could tear in pieces and there is cg ‏[אין‎ PEP
none to deliver.

23) “He who offers acknowl 3}02) 27775? TTI Oat 5
edgement honors Me in truth, and roms gn ‏ארפ‎
‎to him who bases his way of life ag ‏בשע‎ AS
thereon I shall show the salvation .

3 of God.”
‏היות‎ that, actually, 1 was like yourself, that I approved of your deeds and

‎that I regarded My own law as a farce even as you do. Therefore 1 shall‏ ש
‎now divest you of this delusion by reproving you, by showing you your‏
‎true character and setting before your eyes the retribution which awaits you.”‏

‎V. 22. "awa, nat, refers to what is stated in Verse 23. wa

‎4 “do not only take this truth to yourselves, but think upon it and draw the
proper inferences for yourselves, ‏שבתי אלוק‎ all of you who would disregard
God in your daily lives and think of Him only while you are in the Temple

‎offering up your sacrifices. You still have time to retum to Me and to‏ ש
‎pat into practice that which I shall teach you now. But once the punishment‏
‎that I have decreed for you would be upon you, it would be too late for‏

‎you to be delivered.”‏ ש

‎V. 23. ‏תבח ונר‎ “It is not the one that brings Me sacrifices that
does Me honor, but only he who performs this ceremony with his spirit
bent upon paying Me that tribute which is taught through the sacrifice that

‎Vv truly honors Me. Only he will find favor in My eyes who will not restrict
bis homage to Me to any one time or place or ritual act, but ‏דרך‎ nv, who:
bases his entire way of life upon the worship of God as taught anew and

‎expressed in the Temple, and who, by his God-fearing conduct outside the‏ ש
‎Sanctuary, translates into living reality that which by and through his‏

‎-- presence there he has vowed in the Temple, It is only he alone that will be
penmitted to experience that true and genuine life which can be granted
— by God and by no one else.” ‏יבבדנני‎ with intensified ending, means “truly