ever He sends to the righteous whose acts are based on obedience to His will

is nothing else but evcr-new proof of His Jove. ‏ישר וגז'.‎ We come upon some

difficulty when we attempt to explain the purpose of the plural ending ‏מו‎ in

‎It is only in a very few places in the Scriptures that we can interpret‏ .פנימר

‎it also as possibly denoting the singular form. Thus we have ‏זימטר עלימו‎

‎because‏ ,עליו ‎is obviously synonymous with‏ עלימו ‎in Job 20:24. Here‏ בלחומו

‎3S, its object, both in what precedes and in what follows, is in the singular. The
0 same is most probably true of Jeb 22:2 ‏.כי יטכן עלימו משכיל‎ There, however,
the min and also Eben Ezra attempt to explain ‏עלימו‎ as expressing the

‎plural form. If we could interpret ‏פבימו‎ here as a singular form, as if it were

‏,עשהו פסל זיסגד למו 44:15 ‎Ps, 28:8, Gen. 9:26, 27, or, as in Isaiah‏ .06 --פניו ש
‎very definitely denotes a singular form—then the explan-‏ למר ‎where the word‏

‎ation would be quite simple. Then we could understand the meaning of the

‎verse to be as follows: “The face of the Lord beholds the righteous”, or,‏ שי
‎better still, since mn means a perception of the spirit, “The face of the Lord‏

‎Jooks upon the spirit of the righteous”. Only the Lord knows which man is

‎truly righteous and which man’s thoughts are indeed directed solely upon that‏ ש
פניפו ‎which is good and right. But if, as everywhere clse in the Scriptures,‏

‎is a plural form like ‏,פניהם‎ then, so far as we can sce, it can refer only to the

‎preceding mp7. In the latter case we would have to understand the verse‏ ש
‎to mean “The Lord is righteous, He loves righteousness; their face (i.e, the‏

‎face of the righteous) will yet behold Him as a righteous God, how righteous

‎He is," God is righteous in truth; his workings may at times seem unfathom-‏ שי
‎able to us, but the motive of them all is simply His love of righteousness.‏

‎He attempts to teach man to do good merely for the sake of doing good.

‎Such moral improvement of man, however, can be effected only if the right-‏ ש
‎cous seem to be deprived of good fortune, either for a long period of time or‏

‎— throughout their lives. At the same time, every righteous man will yet come
to see that God is ‏,ישר‎ and that righteousness and its reward are not ignored

‎in accordance with this aspect of His rule.‏ ישר ‎Him. Thus He is called‏ על

‏ו32:4 ‎Ment‏ צדיק וישר הוא ;)92:16 ‎(Ps,‏ להגיד כי ישר ה' |