lie straight before me.
oN
dwell among us even now, in these dark days, In this His House, the Abode
of His Law, is the actual ‘Sanctuary’, the Holy of Holies. The altar and the
candelabrum in the ‘Hechal’, in the Abode of His might, set before the
Holy of Holies, the Abode of His Word, teach us to devote all our physical
and spiritual energies to that sanctuary.” (See Comm. to Exod, 26:37, 30:1).
“Thus, when the night, created by evil men, surrounds me and the scheming
and the influence of an ‏איש דמים ומרמה‎ threaten me, then I shall take refuge
in ‘Thy house’ which Thon hast given us in the abundance of Thy love.
2S, There, filled with awe of Thee, I shall prostrate myself before the ideal Thy
“Hecbal’ sets for us. 1 shall consecrate myself to the Sanctuary of Thy Law,
by devoting all my physical and spiritual being and desires to the execation
of these tasks, (mnwa, this complete prostration expresses unconditional
devotion), and all my prayer shall be as follows.”
4 ‏,הי נחנר גגל 9 יר‎ apts see Comm, Gen. 15:6, “Lead me in Thy
Fighteousness; 1.6 in the task taught us by Thee in Thy House and in the
Sanctuary of Thy Law, °n2. Help me so that I may recognize the right path
Vv and not miss it,” ‏שור ,למען שוררי‎ means to sce that which is not plainly obvious.
(See Commentary to Gen. 49:22). From this we derive ‏שורים‎ (Ps, 92:12)
and, more commonly, s*mv, which has a connotation of hostility, those
‏ש‎ who Ie in wait, those who seck to find something they deem blameworthy
in another person. “The enmity of my opponents,” says David, “serves only
to make me all the more anxious to keep my life pure lest 1 become guilty of
even a semblance of wrongdoing, ‏למען שוררי‎ "mn, help me in this endeavor
Vv because of them who lie in wait for me. ‏,הישר לפני דרכך‎ make Thy way lie
straight before mc—do not let me remain in doubt for tong as to the correct
path in which I should walk in accordance with Thy will.” Similarly, there
‏שי‎ is the phrase ‏ועפעפיך יישירו נגדך‎ (Prov. 4:25). It is, however ‏קרי הישר‎ and
‏,כתיב הושר‎ Itis writen ‏,הושר‎ which is a Hiphil form like ‏,הושב‎ It is read with
the * audible, like ‏איסירם‎ (Hosea 7:12), Similarly we read ‏היצא אתך‎ (Gen.
8:17), even though the word is actually written wna. There we have seen
Vv how, in the form of ‏הוצא‎ the action of the one who is going out recedes into
the background, and the effect is, instead, traced back entirely to him wha
--- has caused the going out. It thus means “to lead out”. In the form ‏,היצא‎
‎however, the action of the one who is going out comes to the fore, independ-
ently, and the other person does not hinder the going out, he permits it. ‏היצא.‎
‎| is “to allow” someone to go out. In this verse we have a similar situation.