ee TE EEE
to refute the delusion that man’s welfare depended upon a maximum show
of human power and force, Israel was to be a group of men which, fore-
going all warlike pomp and power, was to attain its own greatness simply
by unfolding a blessed and pure humaneness. This virtue, taught and
blessed by God, was to be practiced by Israel in the conduct within the
walls of each home and within the bosom of cach family. Through this
5 entrance of Israel upon history's stage, heralded by Israel's exodus from
- Egypt into the wilderness, God has sounded forth His promise to mankind,
“Kings of bosts, despite all their power, will quickly depart from the
proscenium of history," says the Lord, But “she who dwells within the
house"; namely, the nation which fulfills its destiny in the quiet, simple
‏שי‎ practice of the “home virtues,” wil] emerge victoriously in the end of time,
and will distribute the “booty” of its victory. Even the purely cultural
achievements in the arts and sciences recorded by the other nations will
have true and beneficial value only if they are coupled with the virtues
‏ש‎ taught and practiced by this ‏בית‎ m2, and only if they are used as means
to the fulfillment of those ends that are part of the Divine plan for man's
destiny. 1 derived from m3, related to m3, means “a quiet, pleasant
‏ש‎ dwelling place.” In its verb form, too, ‏נוה‎ means “to dwell quietly,” as in
my ‏גבר יהיר ולא‎ (Habbakuk 2:5), and ina is one who feels serene and com-
fortable within the walls of her own home, as in ‏הנוה והמענגה דמיתי כת ציון‎
‏שי‎ (Jeremiah 6:2), Thus the words ‏ישב‎ and ‏שכן‎ are used not only with
reference to “the inhabitant” or “the dweller,” but also with reference to
the territory that constitutes the “dwelling place.” For example, it is said of
‏שי‎ Babylonia, ‏לא תשב לנצח ולא תשכון עד דור ודור‎ (Jeremiah 13:20).
V. 14. ‏וגו"‎ bx. ‏שפתים‎ are two neatly arranged rows of household
vessels, a designation for what we would call “the fireside.” See Commentary
to Gen. 49:15. “Would that you, O Israel, were to limit yourselves to
‏ש‎ the practice of the simple home virtues that were ordained as your destiny,”
David says to Isracl. “Would that you were to content yourselves with
being ‏בית‎ ms.” ‏כנפר יונה‎ etc. “Not only the warlike eagle, but the peaceful
— dove as well is covered with silver, and its pinions shimmer with gold.”
yoin is “sharp.” When used in connection with mental ability, it means
“industrious” or “diligent.” It is also used as an adiective denoting the