“es AMIGO De Rindicd SOOKE Milly Mose
stride forward who will put their ‏ב‎ pie
trust in Him,
we can achieve in the faithful service of God. ‏,וגילו ברעדה‎ the ‏בילה‎ growing:
from mys and bore by ‏רעדה‎ ks the greatest bliss of which a creature gifted
‘with intelligence can be capable before his Creator, that a human being can
feel before his God. ‏הוסרו.‎ in Verse 10 stands in contrast to ‏ננתקה את מוסרותימו‎
of Verse 2, just as ‏עבדו‎ in Verse 12 to ‏,וגשליכה ממנר וגו"‎ see ibid,

- ‘V. 12. "at pm. ‏בשק‎ down to ‏(דרך‎ judging by the accents, is a
continuous sentence structure. ‏פן 'אנף‎ is not a threat of what will happen if
the demand of ‏נשקו בר‎ is not complied with. ‏יאנף‎ qo is rather the purpose of
‏נשקר‎ it denotes that from which they will be spared if they comply with the

‎In order to escape God's wrath and the forfeiture of your goal‏ -נשקו ‎charge of‏ שי
‎is “to gird” oneself. (See Gen. 41:40). Thus we also have‏ בשק .נשקו בר ‎in life,‏
‎the imperative form of the Kal inflection,‏ ,נסקו .)78:9 ‎(Ps.‏ נושקי רומי קשת
‎is spelled hore, by way of exception, with a Pathach rather than with a Chirek,‏
‎(Ps.‏ שלתו באש מקדשך ‎Vv ‘or the Pi-ef inflection with the Dagesh omitted, such as‏
בר הייתי ‎“that which is pure”, such as‏ ,כרר ‎derived from‏ ,בר ‎and thus‏ ,)74;7
,הר ‎(Ps, 19:9), or the noun “Purity” such as‏ מצות ה' ברה ,)11:4 ‎sprya Gob‏

‏.הרר ,טל ,גגן ,גלל ‎from‏ ,טל ,גן ,גל שי
‎“You must gird yourselves with all that is morally pure, and not with‏
‎wrong and violence, if you wish to avert the danger (Verse 5) that His wrath‏
‎ful reproach might strike you and you might perish through His indignation.‏
‎for you cannot know how soon‏ כי יבער ,וגו" ‎Do not tarry before you repent,‏ ש

‎this judgment might smite you."

‎depicts the fate of whole groups in a manner parallelling‏ ותאבדו דרך.
‎the description of the fate of individuals, as shown ia Chapter 1:6. For‏ שי
‎nations and individuals alike, salvation—or any future at all, for that matter‏
‎—will Tie only on the path of the Divine moral Law as desired by God and‏
‎in accordance with the goal of His sovereign nile. It is said for the individual‏
‎that the path of the tawless leads to destruction; the ways of‏ ;177 רשעים תאבר ‎Vv‏
‎lawlessness will disappear, but men shall remain on earth forever, to reach,‏
‎by new and pure paths, that bright goal of a fife on earth which blossoms‏ -
‎under God. Of the nations basing themselves on wrong and violence, however,‏ =
‎that, by and through their ways, they rush to meet‏ ,ותאבדו דרך ‎it is said‏
‎annihilation from the earth, just as many similar nations have 8116307 come‏ |