EEE EE EEE
2S,
tion of God's hand in their present lives and in the course of their fate, Every
generation of Israel, wandering in exile, is aware that it must set an inspiring
example for all those who strive after God's neamess with all theie being
and who search for demonstrations of His presence in all the events of their
‏ש‎ history. Therefore Israel prays that God may help it, amidst the pressure of
the times, to preserve its own moral strength so that it may continue in its
spiritual striving after Him. Israel prays for Divine aid so that it may be able
‏ש‎ to do justice to its duty and not become unworthy of God’s visible interven-
tion in its fate. As it strives after God, Isract is aware that He is "ris, namely,
that He is Isracl’s “Master in whose service His people, though exiled, still
stands. Isracl knows, too, that God is also 'z, that even the harsh Divine
Vv decree from which it must now suffer is only another show of God's love
for His people. Finally, Israel remembers that "wax, it was God, as the
God of all the hosts of living things, Who has scattered it to the far comers
Vv of the world so that it may become a wandering reminder of God and of the
relationship which man should have to Him. And Israel expects to see God's
presence in its destiny, for, when He sent His people into exile, He gave them
‏שי‎ the promise ‏ואף גם זאת וגו" כי אני ה' אלקיהם‎ (Lev. 26:44), namely, that even
in the dark days that were in store for the Jewish people, He would not
forsake them and would always prove to be their God, the ‏.אלקי ישראל‎
V. 8 ‏עליך וג"‎ >, “Their hatred and persecution have not come
Vv to me as a result of the transgressions with which they have faiscly charged
me, but have been caused by my failings in my relationship with ‘Thee,”
Israel tells God, “It is for this reason atone that I have been made to bear
-- insults; it is for this reason that they accuse me of moral lapses which make
| me blush with shame.”
VY. 9 | ‏זר .מחר וגו‎ denotes one exrteted fram sinhte ond nrivileace