God, and blossom 1016 with eT ere ae ee
‏אש‎ gladness.
(5) Sing to God, sing praises to toy ™m orton ‏שחו‎ 6 ,
His Name, soar up to Him Who ‏מ‎ pa nia ‏טל לכב‎
guides worlds through barrenness 4 4%
by His Name ‏,יה‎ and exult greatly image wan
before His countenance,
but a few moments later, you will see the smoke clouds blow off in small
5 pufts and gradually fade away. In like manner, all those elements that would
5 conspire against God's world order will fade away of themselves. This
process of disintegration will be hastened by the added impetus of the
events of history which are guided by God, and, weak and devoid of power,
they will dissolve and vanish, ‏,כל 7022 שאינה לשם שמים אין טופה להתקיים‎
Vv As wax cannot abide the presence of fire, so the Iawless man cannot stand
in the presence of God and of the nt ‏אש‎ which He had lighted upon earth.
It is this ‏דת‎ wx, this fire of the Law, that will ultimately be victorious on
earth, and before it all the lawless shall perish,
Vv V.4. Ax ‏,שמח ,וצדיקים‎ yoy, ‏,שוש‎ It is difficult to give an adequate
rendering for these three different expressions of the concept of “joy.” now
(related to ‏(צמח‎ is the sensation of inner “growth” or unfolding. ‏עלץ‎
‎Vv {related to ym) is the emotion accompanying inner liberation and relict
from restraining bonds (sce Psalm 9:3). And ‏שוש‎ (related to ‏(צוץ‎ is the
sensation of the “blossoming forth” of the spirit. The very thought that there
‏ש‎ is a God Who judges all of us and to Whom we are all accountable is one
that the ‏רשע‎ would like to deny summarily. ‘The mere possibility that
there is a God above, a possibility which, decp in his heart, the wicked man
cannot ignore, is a source of torment to him and serves him warning in
‏ש‎ the midst of afl his pleasures and success. But to the po, who is faithful
to his doty, this very same thought, to him an absolute certainty, is the
source of supreme joy. Those who loyally fulfill their task rejoice, and
‏ש‎ derive their own sense of freedom from the knowledge that they have lived
their Hives *pox ‏,למני‎ before the countenance of God, the Lawgiver and Judge
— of all mankind. It is in this type of joy that they find the true unfolding
and “blossoming forth” of their spirit.
7--- ‏.שירו וג' .5 .ער‎ “Therefore,” says David, “I say to you who
| know what bliss God-consciousness can bring, because your lives are de-
dicated to the fulfillment of 000 du: 2- --* 9-77 cbt eee -* 4