1) To Him Who grants victory, Wy) “Wolly TY Ea? > ₪
a song, a psalm, Waken homage ‏כ הָרֶץ:‎ ovis
to the Lord, all the earth. TNT 79 ‏מ‎
‏ב‎ V. 14. ‏וגו‎ wad, ‏כר‎ as in 193192 30:23, ama ‏ירעה מקניך וול כר‎ is
“a pasture,” ‏.יתרועעו אף ישירו‎ AU the world then shall be filled with solemn
homage to God, and their lofty emotions shall be expressed in songs behotd-
ing God's greatness. Or, if ‏התרועע‎ is taken as an expression of loud rejoicing,
as in Psalm 60:10, it means, “All of them shall rejoice, and this rejoicing
Vv shall not remain a vague emotion, but it shall find expression in thought,
in songs bebolding the greatness of God.”
‏שי‎ PSALM LXVI
V. 1, In Psalm 65, David proclaimed how, driven by a compelling
force from within their souts, all men will eventually seck God, and strive
‏שי‎ for union with Him and with His Law, in order to attain salvation on earth
ag taught by the symbol of the Sanctuary of God's Law in the midst of
Israel. Psalm 65 ended with an inspired account of the bliss chat will
blossom forth on earth once man shall have attained that blessed state of
Vv union with God. Psalm 65 was ‏.מזמור שיר‎ In Verse 9 of Psalm 65, the
psalmist declared that the return of all of mankind to God will be hastened
by that which they all shall have leamed through the manifestations of
‏שי‎ God's presence and might in the history of man in general and Israel in
particular, ‏.וייראו ישבי קצות מאותתיך‎ Psalm 66 is a continuation of this trend
of thought. Here David, in inspired song, calls the attention of all the nations
to the manifestations of God's greatness in the history of 1513015 establish-
Vv ment and in that of Israel's exile, so that they all may render Him homage.
‘The end of Psalm 66, however, turns to Israel in particular, giving expression
to the resolutions and thoughts that move Israel's heart and guide the people
-- of Israel in its God-oriented way of life through all the days of its exile
| until the time of its ultimate redemption. Psalm 66, therefore, is a ‏שיר‎
‎nore ‏הריפו)‎ see Psalm 47:2).