on™ ‏ו‎ goal or because of Mle mia
who brings to pass plans which
he himself has devised.

V. 7. we ‏.דום לה' והתהולל‎ This may well be the most profound
teaching in the entire psalm. nv, derived from ont, “to be silent,” as in
‏וידם אהרן‎ (Lev. 10:3) is “to refrain from all speech, all complaints and
protests.” “At times the fate ordained for you by God’s decree might seem
to you incomprehensible,” David tells us. “But ‏לה'‎ py, The realization

- that whatever fate sends you comes only from the Lord, should put an end
to all your doubts and silence whatever protest against the Lord might
come to your lips.” ‏חולל .ומתחולל לו‎ (derived from Yom, see Collected
Writings, Vol. V, p. 157) is “to bring something to birth,” “to cause some-
thing to go into travail” (literally, “to briag about a beginning,” “to cause

Vv something to come into being”). We have ‏אילות‎ boi (Psalm 29:9),
‏אל מחוללך‎ mum (Deut. 32:18). - Sanna (similar to ‏,התחנן אל‎ see Com-
mentary to Deut. 3:23) literally means, “entrust yourself to God so that He

‎may form and shape you. Allow Him to make you ready to be born anew.”‏ שי
‎God works on every human being in order to make him as perfect as‏
‎possible. Whatever God may send us, joy and sorrow alike, is merely a‏
‎means to this end. Throughout his life on carth man is like an embryo‏

‎within the womb. The hour of his physical death is actually the moment‏ ש
‎of his birth; it is at death’s hour that he shall at last have reached “the‏
‎end of becoming” whatever he could become on earth. Shaped to that‏

‎perfection which he could and did attain here below, he now passes over to‏ שי
‎a new form of existence. In this process, of course, even the “birth pangs”‏
‎are by no means lacking.‏

‎“Therefore,” says David, “remain silent before the Lord. Entrust

‎yourself quietly and willingly to His ways in which He will now form and‏ ש
‎shape the mental and moral facets of your personality. Let whatever He‏
‎may send you in life serve to advance the goal of your ultimate mental and‏

‎puts emphasis upon the fact‏ התחולל ‎moral periection.” The reflexive form‏ שי
‎that this formative process to which God subjects us in order to shape‏

‎— the course of our lives, can achieve its purpose only if we, 100, collaborate
with Him in this endeavor. We must regard every new situation in our

‎--- lives as an exercise that is part of the general course of training which God

‎| has prepared for us, For He alone knows the means that would be most