---ת"----.-
‎of your destinies and the guide of your actions.” mx may have the meaning‏
‎(Ps. 133:3),‏ שם צוה ה' את הברכה ‎of “to dispose over,” or “to appoint,” as in‏
,תורה ‎But if we consider that ny is used particularly with reference to the‏
‎(Psalm 132:8), mz can safely be interpreted in its literal senses‏ ארון עוך ‎as in‏ ,5
‎that is, as “to command.” “God has commanded your invincibility”; that‏ 0
‎His commandments which He gave you to take with you into‏ ,מצות ‎is, “His‏
‎exile, the only treasure out of your past which you have been able to rescue‏
‎that you have‏ מצות ‎—this is what has made you invincible. It is from the‏
‎derived your power to bear the suffering that has come upon you. Indeed,‏ שי
‎‘a any.” This is the only instance in which this feminine form of ny‏
‎occurs, It denotes the derivative nature of ny. The actual ny belongs to‏
‎‘God alone; it is from this original Divine ny that we in turn derive an earthly,‏ ש
‎from His‏ עחה ‎rejuvenated ny. It is due to God, Who has wrought us this‏
‎which He has commanded us, that we have attained‏ מצות ‎own ny by the‏
‎this triumph even in exile. This Divine gift is so perceptible in Israel's vic-‏
‎Vv torious perseverance through centuries of exile that it serves to draw the‏
‎minds of all men back to God, so that they will worship Him and render‏

Him homage.

‎wanderings among the nations, the‏ 1901'5פ1 ‎Thus, through‏ .30 .ער שי
‎far beyond the confines of His Temple‏ ,מהיכלך וגו' ‎‘worship of God is spread‏
‎in Jerusalem, When His Temple was first erected, it towered only above‏
‎Jerusalem. “But one day kings from far beyond the wails of this Temple‏
‎occurs only here, in Psalm 76:12‏ שי ‎Vv shall yet bring Thee gifts of tribute.”‏
‎and Isaiah 18:7. In each of these three instances it denotes a gift with which‏
,שיי ‎would be‏ שי ‎the nations shall one day render tribute to God. The root of‏
חמת המלך שככת ‎Related to 120, “to appease,” as in‏ .חי ‎is the root of‏ חיר ‎Vv ‘even as‏
‎(Esther 7:10), it seems to denote 2 homage which a person renders not‏
‎out of his own free will but because he recognizes the superior power of the‏ ——
‎force to which the homage is rendered. The person paying this tribute knows‏
‎that he bas not been worthy of Divine favor, and therefore renders God‏
‎tribute in order to appease the Divine wrath which he assumes is directed‏ |
הוה הייו