me from all my fears. ‏הדרו‎ ONE
happy and of good cheer even if one is homeless and driven away as an
idiot. Let them all hear this so that, whatever their lot may be, they may
not only find comfort, but also retain ‏שמחה‎ thelr inner joy and serenity.”
‘uy is primarily he who is not independent in spirit, character and attitude,
but submits to God entirely in all he docs. (tap is derived from my, from
5 which in turn we derive ‏(עני‎ dependence upon others for one’s existence.
‏אביון‎ denotes such dependence as regards one’s desires, and ‏דל‎ is the
person in reduced circumstances, Sec Commentary to Exod. 23:3).
Therefore ‏משה‎ was the greatest wy on earth, for he became the perfect
instrument of God. Hence this word is used in the ‏תנך‎ preponderantly to
Vv denote the virtue of humbleness. It is not at all unusual, however, that
such humility of character has a direct bearing upon the life of the person
possessing this virtue. At the time of David, much as is the case now,
one could not get very far in life with humility, As a mule, he who is uy
v will be ‏ענל‎ as well. The sages call ‏,הוצפה‎ the opposite of my, a “kingdom
without a crown” ‏.מלכותא בלי תגא‎ Hence the word ‏ענו‎ is also employed
in the Scriptures, and particularly in the Book of Psalms, to denote a
Vv lowly position in life.
Vv. 4. “aie. David calls upon all the unfortunate to rally round
him and, together with him, to declare the greatness of the Lord. There can
‏שי‎ be no more striking demonstration of God's greatness than the fact that He
comforts the most forsaken creature and raiscs him above all pain. The
joy felt by a man blessed with earthly happiness can have a great many
other, secondary causes, but a smile on the face of a man who is hounded
Vv ‘by misfortune—that is indeed direct proof of God's power to give renewed
strength and solace even to the most miserable among men. ‏,וגרוסמה וגו"‎
“We, the poor,” says David, “who have nothing else but the Lord to sustain
‏שי‎ ‘us, we know that ‏,שמו‎ the knowledge of God's Name; 1.0., the awareness of
God and the recognition of His Sovereignty which imbucs us and lends us
— bliss and good cheer, towers above all the other things from which men
are wont to attempt to draw their vital energy and serenity."
V. S. ‏דרש את ה' .דרשתי וגו"‎ means “to scek instruction and inspi-
| ration from the Lord,” “As soon as I turned my mind and spirit to the Lord