nd Kz
‏תהליום פמ‎ 416
13) They that hold seats in the ‏זניגות‎ sue ‏ב יָשְבִי‎ aren as
gate, and the songs of the drunk- ‏דרו‎ eS ae ceed
ards, deliberate against me. ‏תי שכר:‎
A 14) But as for me, my prayer AY FAM ‏ל‎ Spben er 4
shall be to Thee, O Lord, for [but] 37 vce eT Oe
one instant of fovor; 0 God, Who" HRT TR ‏אלקים!‎ Ty
even while judging remainest in ‏יְשְעָּ:‎ MND
the abundance of Thy loving-
Kindness, answer me with the
truth of Thy salvation.
15) Deliver me out of the mire MURR DN) Ww von 06
so that 1 shall not sink; fet me 6 = " ‏וּמִמַעַמחיימים;‎ staid ‏אלה‎
‎2S, delivered from them that hate ve eae Ur =
me and from the depths of the
water,
16) Let no whirlpool of water ya MSW ‏אֶלתשְטְנִי י‎ 6
Vv carry me away, nor let the sha- ‏מצולרק ואל"תָאָטר‎ coward
dowy deep engulf me, neither ₪ ‏ל‎ ' ep 46 -
the well shut its mouth over me. TP RR
v
V. 13. “a1 ‏יושבי שער .ישיחו‎ are those that hold 8 seat in the “gate,”
that is, in the courts, the councils and executive assemblies of the nations.
Vv “Their ‏,שיח‎ their conversations and deliberations were ‏,בי‎ directed against
me, as were the vulgar drinking songs heard in the taverns.” Rulers and
dmakards, the highest and lowest social strata of the nations, were all united
v in contempt for the Jew,
V. 14. ‘mom, “But as for me, though I am rejected morally,
socially and politically by all mea, and in the midst of imminent danger, alt
‏שי‎ my prayer shall always be directed to Thee, to Thy mercy in which Thou
art always ready to grant man a new future. 1 seek not the good will of men,
but only one instant of favor from Thee alone. Thou Who art constant in
the abundance of Thy merey even while Thou art ‏אלקי"‎ in all the sternness
‏ש‎ ‘of Thy judgment, answer me with the ‘truth of Thy salvation.” Thou hast
promised me yw", inalienable life. Now do Thou fulfill this, Thy promise to
me.”
-- V. 15, 16. “1 ‏.אל תשטפני‎ 566 Verses 2, 3. “Do not tet me perish.
Let me fall victim neither to the perils which all may experience but which
affect me in particular, nor to those that beset m= alone.” ‏האר‎ the ‏ואל תאמר‎