ne et ee ect ge elt RBI EWN ‏שריה‎
‎asunder and cast away their cords 0 70 709%
from us.” ‏עבתימו:‎ ape ape
oN
1 and 2. The activity of the nations as 73, as closed units, is shown by ‏,רגש‎
‎in the movement agitated by its leaders; the activity of the peoples, ‏,לאופים‎
‎is shown by aan, in the speculation concerning feasible ideas for the inner
life of the people. The activity of the kings is described by sx°na, in the
consolidation of their positions of power at the helm of the peoples; and the
activity of the ‏רתנים‎ by ‏,הוסד יחד‎ in communal deliberation aed final deter-
mination of the principles of their constitution. The Psalmist sees all these
aspects of the lives of the nations and their activities directed ‏.על ה' ועל משיהו‎
‘They all, consciously or unconsciously, have one common goal; namely to
3, emancipate themselves from the sovercignty of the one supreme principle,
0 that of dutiful obedience to the moral Law of God which came to their aware-
ness through the historical fact of the existence of His people and of His
anointed, Only to this law did God promise His aid and furtherance. Upon
this law did God build His world order, and only through the observance of
‏ש‎ this Iaw can nations attain enduring peace in their domestic and foreign
relationships. The refusal to swear allegiance to this moral law because of
considerations of personat interest, power, fame and wealth is the reason for
the unhealthy internal and external relationships in the lives of the nations.
Vv Instead of seeking a cure for this state of affairs upon the only path that
Teads to the true goal, all the leaders of the lives and activities of the nations
are perversely engaged in a fight against this sole principle of salvation. ‘The
Vv cure actually lies precisely there where they think that they can find the cause
for their troubles, while they seek the cure in that which actually only
aggravates the lingcring evil. The word ‏ריק‎ that which is vain, in a descriptive
manner, stands next to ‏,הגה‎ the speculative reflection of the ‏,לאומים‎ occupied
4 with the cure for the internal ills of the nations. Here more than elsewhere
ean one 100[ in advance the uselessness of the effort to find a lasting and
general remedy, and one contents himself with seeking an improvement that
Vv is merely temporary and one-sided.
wn, is what David calls himself in his “final words", in which he
‘declares his own significance and that of his hymns and of his house for the
Vv moral future of salvation of all of mankind: ‏משיח אלהי יעקב‎ (Sam. 11, 23:1).
V.3. ‏.ננתקה וגו"‎ pnt isa “forcible separation,” “a tearing asunder,
—_ as in Judges 16:9, ‏,מוסרותימר‎ derived from 40°, is a “limiting bond”, ‏:מוסרות‎
‎‘bonds that inhibit wilful expressions of strength, thus also ‏:מוסר‎ “disciptine”
— and ‘10°: “to discipline". may is a cord by means of which the forces of a
| performance are hamessed (related to 729, bay); thus also “carriage cords”