2-0 a a ‏ל 2 הש‎ ee le
frivolous in the congregation of 9%" / . bd . 5
the righteous, ‏צדקים:‎ Na owen] evs
‏.לא כן הרשעים כי אם וגר | .4 .ער‎ The fate awaiting the ‏רשעים‎ and the
om is pictured in the verses that follow and is introduced by 19 ‏,על‎ which
presupposes a preceding description of the way of life that merits such a
fate. Therefore ‏,לא כך‎ etc. cannot denote the failure of the undertakings of
5, the wicked as opposed to the success of the plans laid by the righteous, and
must instead be understood as an expression of contrast to the ethical conduct
‘of the righteous, Therefore ‏לא כן הרשעים‎ stands in contrast to ‏כי אם בתורת ה'‎
‏.וג‎ They do not derive the basic principle for all their actions from a Supreme
Law that was handed down as unchangeable, and which is to be adopted by
Vv them as the mainspring of all their thoughts and desires. They are, instead,
‏כמץ‎ etc. 7a, derived from ‏,מצץ‎ “to suck out’, is the outer husk which, even
though its shape is still similar to that of the fruit which it originally covered,
‏ש‎ has neither seed nor support of stem or root.
‏-אשר תדפנו רות‎ -4 therefore succumbs to the force of the wind which
drives it hither and yon. The lawless are thus, They have neither seed not
support and allow themselves to be swayed in every direction by the forces
4 of passion and temptation,
V.5. ‏,קום .על כן וגר‎ “to remain standing”, “to stand up”; can also
be translated as “to rise,” “to rise to a standing position.* See Gen, 23:17
Vv and 19, etc. ‏במשפט‎ is the Divine Judgment over the deeds of men, Because
the ‏רשעים‎ seck neither inner nor outer support from God's moral Law revealed
to man, but instead allow themselves to be swayed only by their passions and
‏ש‎ environmental temptations, they will be unable to rise ‏קט‎ or “stand up” in the
Divine Judgment. ‘The ‏,הטאים‎ those who, in their levity, have forfeited their
mission in life or have acted in contradiction to it, shall not be smitten by
God's Judgment to the same extent as those who consciously and deliberately
Vv scorn His Law, but neither shall they find a place in the Divine Judgment
among those who have remained faithful to their duty. ‏במשפט בעדת‎ wip? ‏לא‎
‎— ‏.צדיקים‎ The phrase ‏לא יקומו‎ is the predicate for oxen, ‏צדיק‎ denotes that
man who, as opposed to the ‏רשעים‎ and the ‏,הטאים‎ fulfills all his duties ‏-םסס‎
‎sciously and earnestly, ‏,עצה‎ derived from yy, is an association based upon
| a common purpose and a common belief in that purpose.