“ upon the physical shaping of the earth and its inhabitants, is ‏,הורך‎ Thy power
and Thy influence, which Thou hast transferred to the heavens and which
proclaim themselves through the heavens, (Cf. Ps, 19:2—7,) The ultimate
universal recognition of Thy Name is assured through the constant proclama-
tion by the heavens of Thy greatness and might.”

‎“Thus from the mouths of children and suck-‏ .מפי עוללים ‎"a‏ .3 .שר

‎lings Thou hast fashioned for Thyself an invincible might.” If the recogni-

‎tion of God were so difficult that it could be attained only by means of

‎extensive scholarly study; if it were necessary—in the words of the Scriptures

‎5, (Deut. 30:11—14)—to penetrate into the mysteries of the supernatural
- world aswell as into the secrets of the far-flung zones of the terrestrial spheres;
if the name of “God” would not proclaim itself wherever the heavens arch

‎‘over even one small spot of the earth, and if this ABC of human recognition

‎would not be intelligible to every pure, child-like mentality—then, indeed,

‎Vv we would have to despair of the eventual establishment of the kingdom of
God on earth, Indeed all those who find it inconvenient to recognize God's
‘Name and to accept the idea of a moral world order and of maral responsi-
bility before one Supreme Judge of Men and Nations would then find it ar

‎easy thing to expunge these thoughts and concepts from the minds of men.‏ ש
,גשמה טהורה ‎However every baby that is born means the advent on carth of a‏
‎of one more pure soul capable of God-consciousness. And even if the very‏

‎name of "0006" were to disappear from all the books of an arrogant, erring‏ שי
‎human science, it could still never be expunged from the Divine Scriptures‏
‎handed down from heaven anew to every unspoiled new generation, Even‏
‎if much of the present were wretchedly Jost to the hopes of mankind, the‏

‎faith in the eventual coming of the kingdom of God, in the ‘gathering of the‏ ש
‎entire community of man as one congregation about God’ as expressed in‏
‎the‏ ,עוללים זיונקים ‎Psalm 7, will still rest on a firm foundation, because of the‏

‎future generations.”‏ שי

‎is that which is still in the process of formation (see Comm. 10‏ ,עול
‎Exod. 10:2), therefore, the child. In Job 3:16 it also denotes the child yet‏
‎“from the recognition which even the mouth of a child may‏ ,מפי וגז' ‎unbom.‏ שי
‎voice intelligently”. ny derived from ity, from which we get 1, the power‏

‎en of resistance, invincibility,
“pons ‏צרר ,למען‎ is “to confine”, “to limit in space". “Thou hast
₪ written the proclamation of Thy Name upon the heavens above where it
| cannot be reached by the hands of men, but yet it is intelligible even to
children. Thou hact built an indestruct®’- 4--—!—t-o feo 7 wee