knows and freely acknowledges the fact that 11 belongs to the Lord, in this

manner Israel has incurred the ridicule of the throng, which ask, "Where

is your God, after whom you name yourselves and for whom you wait

5 Tike a bride forsaken? He has forgotten you long ago. You pass your

- present in mouming for a future that will never come. You are deluded by
your foolish pride to sacrifice reality for an illusion.”

‎ie. the memories of the past which are then‏ אלה .אלה וגל .5 ץר

‎recounted in this verse. ‏.ואשפכה עלי נפשי‎ “Sy "1 pour out my soul in grief

‎Even while the other nations‏ .עלי תשתפך נפשי ,30:16 ‎and sadness,” as in Job‏ ש

‎Jaugh at my present sad and lowly state, I take comfort in recalling past

‎ploties, even though these memories bring me much pain.” 0 derived

‎from 90, which is “to cover,” but also “to separate,” as in ‏מטך הפתח‎

‎v (Exod. 35:15), ‏ויסך בדלתים ים‎ (Job 38:8). The same is true of ‏:סוך‎

‎(Isaiah 5:5),‏ הסר משוכתו :₪ ‎Ww (Micah 7:4), also spelled with‏ ממסוכה

‎ETH, ‏דרת‎ is the slow, halting step, particularly the mincing gait of young

‎children. Our sages use this term with reference to a mother who slowly‏ ש

‎Teads her chitd which is just beginning to lear how to walk, AUR ATID

‎is a Hithpael form with personal ending;‏ אדדם ‎(Sabbath 128b).‏ את בנה

‎Vv 1. 6. ‏אותם‎ ary like ‏מז והתנחלתם אותם‎ which the reflexive indicates the dative,

‎“You shall bequeathe them unto yourselves"; thus ‏אדדם‎ is “I lead them

‎toward me in slow steps.” Israel recalls the climax of its past glory, the

‎pilgrimage festivals when the entire nation, gathering from all its parts,‏ ש

‎wandered up to its one focal point, the Sanctuary of the Law in Jerusalem,

‎and, as the united nation of the Lord, rallied round His Law. This pilgrimage,

‎mandatory upon everyone, summoned them all alike to the one Sanctuary.

‎Vv King and beggar, scholar and artisan, merchant and farmer, were united in

‎equal humble duty and homage to the Lord and to His Law. This unity

‎₪ transcended all those differences and barricrs of wealth and position, occupa-

‎tion and talent that usually divide citizens from one another. Israel sees

‎itself as ‏ישראל‎ nox, the embodiment of the spiritual ideal of Jewish national

‎| unity, as the spiritual mother of the Jewish community, breaking through