‎And draw out the spear and yu, oan ptt 8‏ )3 אע
‎me; say to my soul, "1 am your Da pe eying‏
‎salvation.”‏

‎a nation that has made the Psalms part of its literature. They could be made
to apply to all of Israel in the same manner as they originally referred to
the personal fate of that man who was called upon to be God's instrument
5 among his people. David had to experience in his own life all the vicis-
5 situdes and the resultant moods of mind and spirit that were to be the lot
of his people as part of their training and purification for their mission
on earth,
sayy, Here we do not have the word ‏,מריבי‎ which might be under-
‏שי‎ stood to designate also those who have only some passing quarrel with
David, but 12°7", a noun form of ‏,ירב‎ synonymous with ‏,רוב‎ like ‏טוב‎ and ‏.יטב‎
‎‘These are enemies whose opposition to David and Israel is an essential
part of their character and basic outlook on life, Furthermore, the verse

‎v does not say ‏,את הנלחמים את"‎ which would be the ordinary reciprocal Niphat
form and would express the thought that the struggle is reciprocal. Instead,
we find ‏,לחזמר‎ which is a Kat form, The steuggle is only one-sided, “They

‎ace at war against me,” says David, “but I am not fighting them, I do not‏ שי
‎reciprocate their hostility, nor do I defend myself by means of counter-‏
‎and nn,‏ ריב ‎attack.” Actually, this antagonism is of a dual nature; it is both‏
‎a fight both of words and of viotent physical attack. They attack his honor‏

‎v and his innocence with slander and libel, (2%), and they endanger his
existence and his physical safety, ‏(לחם)‎ > David prays that the Lord may
take up the fight in his behalf with respect to both these very real dangers

‎Vv with which he is confronted.

‎V. 2. "31 ‏,מגך .החזק‎ derived from qm, “to enclose," “to fence in,”
is a shield that can repel missiles even if they are hurled from a great
‏שי‎ distance. 2, from ‏,צנן‎ {related to pv, “to be sharp”), from which we
derive ys, “spike,” is a spiked shield used to ward off the direct, head-on
— collision. The shield, 129, is needed to ward off ‏יריבים‎ who fight David from
afar off, while the spiked safeguard, mx, is necessary to repel the direct

‎_ attacks of his ‏.לוחמים‎
‎| ‘V.3. ‘ox pam. “no is most probably a noun and denotes a “barrier,”
‏וו הווה עבר וב ₪ בש .)42 ב‎