7 ‏תחלים יר-מו‎
PsaLM XV
1) A Psalm of David. Lod, WTP TI Bi ₪ ‏םדו‎ |
who shall sojourn in Thy Taber- ‏בהר קשח‎ Eyre ‏באל‎
‎nacle, who shall dwell upon the We BP PENG ₪ .
4 mountain of Thy Sanctuary?
than the same God Who, throughout all of Jewish history, has revealed |
Himself to both Israel and the world, Therefore Israel, despite its material;
“poverty” and position of “dependence” in society, confidently puts its full
trust in Him and will not allow itself to be swayed from its principles or from
its doctrines even by the bitterest of experiences or the most tempting of
enticements. Only by faithful adherence to the Law sent us by God from
Zion will we gain the strength which will sustain us at all times and the hope
S, which will uphold us for all the days of the future. ‏,בשוב ה' שבות עמו‎ when
God wilf one day turn back to the total exile of His people and when He
will return to their midst as to His own people, then “Jacob”, the suffering
nation in world history, will exult in the fulfillment of those hopes which it
had cherished unswervingly through all its trials. At that thme this nation, in
v its character of “Israel”, the nation proclaiming God's Sovereignty in its
destiny, in its teaching and in its life, shall experience the beginning of an
era of joy everlasting.
‏גיל גול שי‎ is the vociferous expression of joy, probably related to ‏,קול‎
‎the vocal expression of thoughts and emotions in general. ‏,שמח‎ related to
nos (ag ‏שוש‎ ig related 10 718, "to bloom”) is the feeling of inner growth,
unhampered inner blossoming, serenity. While ‏ביל‎ connotes a more intensive
Vv emotion of joy, rv describes a feeling of joy that persists. It is quite possible
to become Yociferous in ‏גילה‎ 81 moments of particularly great elation, but
‏שמחה‎ is the continuous sense of gladness, that serenity which should accompa-
‏שי‎ ny us throughout life. For this reason we find that ‏שמת‎ frequently follows
3, to express a greater degree of joy. ‏אגילה זאשמחה בחסדך‎ (Psalm 31:8),
“[ shall exult, yea, I will attain lasting joy through Thy goodness", and else-
. where, ‘Thus here, too, we have the same thought, When redemption shall
Vv come, Jacob shall exult and Iscael will attaln joy everlasting.
PSALM XV
4 V..1. ‏.מזמור לדור‎ This psalm is closely related in content to that
— of Psalm £4. Psalm 14 was inspired by the thought of that strength which
can overcome all enemies. ‘This is the strength which God gives to that man
-- who draws all his life's tasks and hopes solely from the ideals represented
| by His Sanctuary in Zion and who puts all his trust in dutiful striving to