Shall not remain sorgottem fore baly Fve ‏רנ מצד‎
ever lest the hope of the poor man» ag ‏ה‎ oie npn
would be lost for all eternity, we ‏תאפר‎ DRE, NEM
Job 7:2. We sce a sign of the existence of God and of His Divine judgment
wherever a wicked man gets caught in the trap of his own kmavish tricks, or
rather (since ‏נוקש‎ is the active form of ‏(נקש‎ whenever God ensnares a wicked
man in that which his own hands have wrought. mn (degrees of comparison
5 ‏(חיה ,היה‎ denotes a thought demanding to be expressed (see Psalm 1:2,
- ‘Yeshurun Vol. VIII, p. 118). “He ensnares the wicked man in the work of
his own hands, that is the truth which becomes apparent.” The truth that
yeveals the hand of God in history and which becomes apparent in such
events is that He lets the wicked prepare their own downfall.
Vv ‏.ער‎ 18. Yat saw. ‏ישובר‎ does not mean “they shall return to the
grave”, for that would presuppose that they had been in the grave once before.
Instead, it means “they shall retreat”; ie. they sink back from the heights
they have climbed, back ‏,לשאולה‎ with the double preposition ‏ל" בתחלתה‎ and
Vv mptea ‏ה'‎ denoting the concept of direction. According to xx" ‏מ"ר‎ this use
of the double preposition lays stress on the direction in ‏לדיוסא תוזתונה של ,שאול‎
hwo, “to the deepest depths of destruction”. Actually, however, this expres-
‏שי‎ sion may indicate mitigation of the thought. ‏לשאול.‎ would mean “into the
grave", But ‏לשאולה‎ would be “in the direction of the grave”, “toward the
grave”, just as ‏צפונה‎ in ‏ממלכות צסונה‎ (Jer, 1:15) are not “the kingdoms of
the north" but the “northern countries”, those located in a northerly direction.
‏126---ישובו לשאולת ש‎ sink back in a direction leading to the grave. The grave
is called ‏,שאול‎ from ‏,שאל‎ “to demand”, “to demand back”. Only that which
emanates from man is doomed to rot in the grave, but ‏נפשי לשאול‎ ayn ‏,לא‎
‏שי‎ whatever is divine and spiritual in man and has not sprang from the dust
shall also not be doomed to retum to dust. So, too, only that part of national,
life which, as is said in Verse 7, has been fated for destruction from the very
beginning, is destined to fall into the grave of the nations. Men and nations
‏ש‎ alike go to the grave only if they are ‏רשעים‎ if they deprive the moral law of
all that is divine and eternal and degrade it by exploiting it for the acquisition
of transitory possessions, power and pleasure, In short, the grave awaits
— ‏,כל גוים שבתי אלדים‎ all those nations that forget the Lord Who is the God of
justice and right,
‏.כי לא לנצח וגו" | .19 .יר‎ They foreet God because they have consi-