God,
5, ‏יר‎ 31. Na ays, ‏גער ב-‎ is “to direct a threat or rebuke against
5 another.” ‏גער את‎ is “to deter someone by means of threat or rebuke.” It is
used as an allegory in connection with “inhibiting a seed in its development”;
that is, “to deter a seed fom unfolding.” ‏הנני גער לכם את הזרע‎ (Malachi 2:3).
‏חית קנה‎ is an animal having its habitat among the reeds and reed banks, like
‏שי‎ Leviathan (Isaiah 2721). It is the simile used for a cunning national power,
as is explained in more detail by ‏אכיר ,עדת אבירים בעגלי עמים‎ is a power
that is ambitious and outdistances other nations which behave like “calves,”
that is, they act stupid and inexperienced compared to the former, ‏אבר)‎
‏ש‎ means “wings,” “pinions,” indicating the concept that these mighty nations
“soar above and beyond all the others.”) ‏,רפס ,מתרפס‎ also ‏,רפש‎ like ‏,רפש‎
‎means “mire,” “mud,” ‏מתרפס‎ is “to soil oneself with mud,” “to cower in the
‏שי‎ mud.” ‏רצץ ,רצי כסף‎ ₪ “to break (into pieces}.” ‏רצי כסף‎ are “pieces of silver.”
‏בזר‎ as well as “He, both mean “to scatter.” ‏,קרבות‎ the plural form of ‏,קרבה‎
‎an approach, a “drawing nigh,” as in ‏לי טוב‎ “pox ‏קרבת‎ (Psalm 73:28),
‏קרבת אלקי" יחפצוך‎ (Isaiah 58:2). In Verse 30 the Psalmist proctaimed his
‏ש‎ confidence that kings would one day come from far beyond the confines of
the Jewish nation and render their homage to God. The obstacle in the way
of the speedy coming of this era is the ‏,הית קנת וגו'‎ the crafty power compared
‏שי‎ to which all other nations are weak, inexperienced and devoid of insight.
This one might outdistance all the others by its power and cunning; its sole
concern is crude egotism, 16 will cower in the mud for the sake of money,
it will exploit for its own ends the disunity of the nations and their estrange-
‏ש‎ ment from God. It has always sowed the seeds of discord among the nations
whenever they sought to draw near to one another or to God. There is no
greater obstacte to the retum to God than the cunningly and selfishly nurtured
05 disunity among the nations. Therefore the Psalmist prays that God may ‏,ער‎
‎deter it and not permit it to rear its head.
YY. 32, wi ‏.יאתיר‎ “Then Hasmoneans will come even from Exvot.