means to “guide a horse,” is used here to indicate the leadership and
guidance exercised by the king over men and situations in an effort to
achieve the true goal. ‏ענוה-צדק‎ is an unusual combination. It is neither
- PIN May nor ‏צדק‎ ANY, but ‏ענוה-צדק‎ (see the ‏(פסוק‎ and thus the ideas of
aay and ‏צדק‎ seem to have been combined to form one single concept.
‏צדק‎ is the ideal of right; this should be the ruling motive and, as the supreme
ideal of order, it should also refgn supreme among men. Unfortunately,
‏שי‎ however, right is only a concept, an idea, and an idea in itself has no power.
An idea is the greatest uy of them all. It stands back modestly and waits
until it is given effective representation by the right man, The Jewish king,
‏ש‎ too, has the sword at his side, for it is only proper that the noblest and
most brilliant among men should also be girded with power. But the
sword becomes him only if he will employ it in order to bring into its
own ptt, that which fs the most powerless thing on earth without his inter
Vv ‘vention, to remove every obstacle that might stand in the way of right, and

to lead and guide men and circumstances in the paths of righteousness.
‏.ותורך נוראות ימינך‎ “If you will wield your power for such purposes,”
‏ש‎ the singer says, "then you will achieve things at which you ‘yourself will be
amazed) of which you would never have thought yourself capable. You
shall then ‘find ouf that even though truth and right mey be weak in
‏שי‎ themselves, they can endow with omnipotence that might which places
itself in their service. For that power which stands in the service of right

stands in the service of the Divine.”

‎pan. Tho preceding verses describe the rule of royal‏ גג" 6 ‎V.‏ שי
‎power In times of peace, in the midst of the king’s people themselves. But‏
‎if this power is used there only in the service of truth and right, then the‏ ---
‎“arrows,” that is, the weapon of remote action, will also be victorious in‏
‎the fight against the foe, and the nations who are “enemies of the king”s‏

‎| i. €. enemies of any authority, will subordinate themselves to his rule.