nw worthiness; let them that devise
my hurt fall back and find them-
selves unmasked.

5) Let them be as chaff before yb ‏לְפֶנְררוּחָ‎ yipp vim 6
the wind as Divine decree thrusts ”* cu ‘om
them away. one as

6) Dark and slippery shail be npbphm en ast 6
their path, and Divine decree will ‏שי הפר‎
overtake them, roan ‏ולע וה‎

3S, 2
- 7) For without cause they have Pru ‏תת‎ aye pansy (7
secretly Iaid for me the ruin of ‏שמת רשם:‎ ORD EAP /
thelr snare, without cause have pep nen ait
they dug pits for my soul.
vw
ig found in Job 28:15, even though it has a different meaning there;
Vv namely, “replacement,” as in ‏בשר תחתנת‎ 730" (Gen. 2:21). ‏,אמר לנפשי‎ “let
my soul become aware of the fact that Thou art my salvation.”
V. 4--6. ‏יבשה ,12 וגו"‎ sce Psalm 6:11, “They will find them-
‏ש‎ selves hopelessly deceived in their expectations.” While ‏בוש‎ is the sensation
of humiliation because of frustrated hopes, and ‏חפך‎ (see Psalm 34:6) is
the shame felt when unpleasant facts which one would rather have kept
concealed come to light, ‏הכלם‎ is the painful realization of one's own present
‏ש‎ unworthiness, It is related to nba, “a shapeless body,” “an object devoid
of form.” Verses 4, 5 and 6 are a continuation of the thought begun in
‘Verse 3 with ‏.אמר גנד"‎ “Give my soul the confidence that Thou art indeed
‏שי‎ my salvation, that the hopes of my enemies will never be 2018160. Reassure
me that, instead, my foes will become painfully aware of their own unworthi-
ness and they will be ashamed for having desired my downfall, and that,
mighty and frightening though they scem, they, like the chafl, have no
‏ש‎ ‘inner core’ (Psalm 1:4) and therefore will be ‘blown away’ by Divine
decree. Help me also to remain firm in the belief that the path which they
have trod is indeed dark and slippery, and that everyone who walks such
— a path will be overtaken by Thy decree.”
| ‘V. 7, 8. ‏.כי חנם וגל‎ “I may indeed have this trust,” says David.
“For I have given them no cause for ‏הרייד‎ echeminn ‘Thaw alae an aren