1) A Song, ‏ב‎ Psaim by the sons 5 Jap ‏שוו 6 ור‎
of Korah. mae 4 ₪
A 2) Greatis the Lord and clear spp “iyo dba mim TB @
ly revealed by His mighty acts in “7 "Teton agent
the city of our God, the mountain ₪ ₪
of His sanctuary.
it seems that He has withdrawn from the earth altogether. In Psalm 84:10,
89:19 the king is called ‏מגן‎ “the shield of the people.” nby, in the Niphal
form, always means “to remove oneself from something,” “to withdraw.”
‘Thus we read ‏כי אז מהבקר נעלה העם‎ (Sam. 11 2:27}; ‏בהעלות חיל הכשדים‎
3S, (Jeremiah 37:11); ‏נעלה מעל הכרוב‎ (Ezech, 9:3), ‏נעלה‎ is Niphal, past tense.
PSALM XLVIII
V. 1. At the end of Psalm 47 we find the thought that Israel's
‏ש‎ relationship to God was closer than that of the other nations only because
Israel was ‏,נדיבי עמים‎ and that Israel's election as ‏עם אלקי אכרהס‎ was solely
‘a means to bring all the other nations, in the course of time, to acknowledge
‏ש‎ and worship the Lord as their God. We also find a statement indicating that,
even at a time when it appeared that the Lord had withdrawn from the world
of man, He had actually already retumed into the midst of mankind and
begun His reign among the nations by the very act of electing Israel as His
‏ש‎ Chosen People. Psalm 48 shows us the manner in which God reveals His
greatness to the other nations through Israel.
V. 2. ‘a ‏.גדול‎ Greatness is a relative concept and denotes that
‏ש‎ which surpasses all other things in its own category. It is obvious that “a
dig fiy” is not nearly as large as a “small horse.” Hence, “great is the
Lord” is a statement indicating that “He surpasses every concept that men
might have of the power and Divine force that rules and shapes the world.”
v Here we have the designation ‏ה'‎ for the Lord, representing the manner in
which He revealed His might in and through Israel. ‏,מהלל‎ He is visible in
His acts, which form His ‏הלל‎ “emanations,” and make Him clearly apparent
‏שי‎ to any thinking mortal, just as the existence, presence and effect of light is
manifested by radiance, emanation and brightness. The Lord selected Jeru-
--- salem, our City of God, as the place where He would make known His
greatness and His mighty acts. And Jerusalem is merely wip ‏,הר‎ Zion,
the mountain of His Sanctuary, serving only as a symbol of that which the
| Law reposing there has set down as being God's will as regards the way of