eee EE EO OY ‏כ‎ >
erncible they shall indeed come to Pee 1 ‏בל‎ wR 62
earth, seven times refined. ‏שְבְטָתִים:‎
‎V. 6, ‏עני .משד וגל‎ is he who has been deprived of his means of
5, iivelibood, 72x, derived from ‏,אבה‎ “to submit to the will of others”, denotes
0 a person who is completely at the mercy of the whims of others. One day
the misuse of specch will have brought society to such a base state of cor-
ruption that everyone will eke out his livelihood and his existence by
seeking to deprive others of thetr right to live and to enjoy happiness. ‘Then
Vv God will say, ‏אקום‎ Any, “Now is the time that I should arise.” The ‏מ-‎ in ‏משר‎
‎and in ‏מאנקת‎ is the causative 7p, as in ‏עששה מכעס עיני‎ (Psalm 6:8) and ‏מכל‎
‏צוררי הייתי חרפה‎ (Psalm 31:12). One day God will indeed arise. Even
now He intimates it softly, but in a manner that is intelligible to the man of
Vv understanding. “I shall bring happiness”. Do not tremble and despair. We
hhave already shown above (Psalm 10:5) how the word mp “to puff’, “to
breathe”, is used to denote soft, gentle intimations. Thus, quite in accordance
Vv with our interpretation here, we read in Habbakuk 2:3, ‏ויפח לקץ ולא יכוב‎
‘a1 ‏יתמהמה חכה לו‎ BX, “God’s promise breathes towards the end [of time)";
that is, He intimates it, and it is no deception, Even if its realization should
‏ש‎ ‘be ‏מס‎ in coming, even if it should tarry, it is sure to come to pass in the
end, ‏,יפיח לו .כי בא יבא לא יאחר‎ like ‏,ימה לקץ‎ he intimates it. If we interpret ‏לר‎
‎as referring to the subject, it would mean, “it intimates of itself,” ‏.אשית בישע‎
YY. 7. ‏.אסרות ה' וגו‎ Contrary to the mv of human promises, they
‏ש‎ are ‏,טהורות‎ free from any ingredient that might becloud their veracity. ‏עליל‎
‎is every individual moment of the great sum total of God’s Sovereignty which,
‏מ‎ its totality, is called ‏עלילה‎ and ‏עלילות‎ (See Psalm 9:12). bby is ono single
‏שי‎ act of God that comes to the fore. That which God bas promised from above
will surely come down to earth as tried silver, refined seven times. Whatever
--- God foretells will come true in full, in its entirety, in pureness and genvine-
ness. But a period of time must elapse between the giving of the promise
--- and its fulfliment. The word of God is pure silver. The earthly affairs,
| amidst which the promise will be realized, are stil! turbid and not fit for