ee ee ee ee eee ee ee oe eee nee eS OS
any and all the changes and vicissitudes in transitory earthly affairs. ‏ורעה‎
‎5 ‏(אמונת‎ and ‘nourish’ your faith; that is, lead your mex, that devoted,
- trusting loyalty to God’s leading and guiding hand, to the ‘pasture’ of your
‘own life’s experience. ‘Nurture’ and ‘strengthen’ your 77x on the basis
of all that you yourself have gone through in life.” ‏רעה)‎ see Commentary
to Genesis 4:2). “You will attain ‏שכן ארץ‎ through ‏בטח בה'‎ and through
‏.עשה טוב שי‎ The realization that the success or failure of your undertakings
is proportional to the degree to which they conform to God’s will gives you
a more thorough understanding of God's father-like guiding hand. Through
‏ש‎ all these experiences, you will constantly grow more steadfast in your ‏".אמונה‎
‎Vv. 4, ‏,והתענג על ה'‎ uy is the enjoyment of comfort that can be
found in quiet confinement. (See Commentary to Gen. 14:14). ‏התענג על ה'‎
“Seck and find your greatest sense of comfort with God,” says David.
‏ש‎ “Desire and take delight only in those pleasures of which you need not be
ashamed in God's presence. In fact, these pleasures should give you joy
because you know that you may enjoy them in His presence since they have
‏שי‎ come to you through His bounty and they find favor in His eyes. Even
amidst joys and pleasures, you remain with your God.” ‏התענג על ה'‎ “Seek
those pleasures that can be found only with God ‏ויתן לך משאלות לבך‎ and
then your wishes shall not remain unfulfilled” (Cf. Psalm 36, Verse 9).
‏ש‎ Before we draw near God with our wishes, fet us first purify our hearts so
that they will cherish only such desires as are worthy of being fulfilled by
the Lord.
Vv V. 5, "ama. In Verses 1—4 we have seen a general description
of the views, attitades and principtes in which the God-oriented person
₪ finds the purity and bliss of his life. Now we come to certain definite in-
structions for us to follow in a variety of situations that may confront us
| in our owa personal lives. First of all ‏,בול על ה' דרכך‎ bY means, “to roll