40 686 Mall in 400010360 Wilh ‏סנו‎ ANCES 141401, AO UE Pail, WOO 5
dedicated himself in 5618055 devotion to the service of the Lord, He shows
His own lavish, devoted love, For the ‏חפיד‎ uses every ‘ton bestowed upon
him by the Lord for doing more ‏חסד‎ to help advance the welfare of the world.
(See Psalm 4:4), It is only the man who is ‏תמים‎ who will understand God's
rule, as ‏.תמים פעלו‎ Only he who will subordinate all his life to the fulfillment
of the Divine Law and who will cheerfully forego the gratification of his own
desires the better to be able to carry out his Divine calling on earth, will be
capable of full appreciation of God’s love at all times. He will value that

- loving kindness even if it takes the form of hardship, loss or denial. In this
verse, however, we have ‏חמים‎ 133 which is a form that is somewhat rare. It
does not read ‏גבר‎ or ‏גבור‎ (Heidenheim puts the word as 931). The ‏מסודה:‎
‎seems to support the manner in which most of the other editions state it

‎occurs three times in the‏ גבר ‎should be read. The Masorah states that the word‏ ש
‎Scriptures; namely, in this psalm, in Daniel 2:25 and Daniel 5:11. Thus‏
צר ‎the word most likely has the same punctuation in all three instances.‏

‎is the Chaldaic form of the word. The Hebrew appears to be an abbreviated‏ ש
‎is the quality which David regards himself‏ תמים ‎form. If we consider that‏
‎possessing (Verse 24), it would seem quite plausible that his own personal |‏ 83

‎modesty caused him to use the abbreviated form of the word. He does not‏ שי
,733 תמים ‎which occurs in II Samuel 22:26, or even‏ 7133 תמים ‎use the form‏
‎indicating that he feels he belongs merely “to the circle of tho |‏ ,133 תמים ‎but‏

‎Vv ‏,עס נכר תתברר ."תמים‎ Thy guidance, helping man to attain self-discipline and
moral perfection, grows steadily clearer to him who strives to better himsetf
and who recognizes the faults he still bas, His understanding of Thy paternal

‎oy‏ עקש .)6:10 ‎(Cant.‏ ברה כחמה ‎role increases as he advances in purity. Cf.‏ ש
‎‘npnn (see Commentary to Deut. 32:5). But to him who persists in his‏
‎crooked ways and who will not improve, Thou art an implacable opponent.‏
‎‘Thou wilt not let him go until he has been subdued.‏

‎David bas come to know from his own experience‏ .כי אתה .28 ‎‘V.‏ ש
‎the characteristics of the ways in which God's Sovereignty appears to man‏
‎and as they are stated in Verses 26 and 27. The Lord has shown him His‏

‎— workings in this manner. Now, in Verse 28, we are told the reason why God
| thus sought to train David. Wi ‏כי אתה עם‎ “Israel lay prostrate, powerless,
and therefore God wanted to equip me. (David. to become its deliverer