ce eee ee ‏ו‎
‎stand afar off and hide Thy pres- ‏כִּצרָה:‎ nipye ‏מעָלים‎
‎ence in times of trouble?

V.24. "a any. ama, derived from ‏,הרה‎ “to receive a seed”, the
Hiphit of which, min, denotes the implanting of a spisitual and moral sced
into someone; 16. to teach, and ‏תורה‎ is “a teaching”. Sce Commentary to

‎Gen, 16:5, 26:5. ava is a lesson; Le. a historical fact which the peoptes will‏ ב
‎experience, which will implant into them a seed that will be a constant re-‏
‎minder to them and will bring them to their senses, Israel does not pray‏
‎that the nations should perish but that they should return to the paths of‏
‎may they, who believe that they‏ ,ידעו גוים וגו ‎prudence and understanding.‏

‎v are gods, come to realize that, actually, they are inferior even to ordinary
humans because they ate men of violence, (For ‏אנוש‎ see Commentary to
Ger, 4:26).
vw
PSALM X
V. 1. This psalm has no superscription and is a sequel to Psalm
‏ש‎ 9 as far as content is concerned. The theme of Psalm 9 is the intervention
of God in the history of mankind in such a fashion that the ordinary human
eye does not sce an act of God in the course of the events. In Psatm 9
there és stated the firm conviction that all tyranny will perish in the end and
‏שי‎ that eventually all despotism, whatever its nature, shall vanish fom the
earth. All that Israel dares to ask of the Lord in Psalm 9 is that He bring
about, right now, one single great event, obviously miraculous in nature,
‏ש‎ that would make the nations and their rulers sit up and take notice, Psalm
10, however, deals with present-day human relationships rather than with
international affairs. It describes the attitudes and ways of thinking of an
individual who has thrown off the yoke of the moral law, and who finds the
‏שי‎ gratification of his lust for material possessions and pleasures in the ruin of
his fellow men, The psalmist realizes that, in these times of moral degenera~

‎--- tion, even those who must suffer at the hands of such individuals are them~
selves in need of chastisement (Verse 12). Yet, at the same time, he still
fervently hopes that God will break the power of the lawless at least to such

‎| a degree that their blatant impudence will not increase. After all, the deniad