-.....₪.₪.₪₪.-₪-- 88
3 me because of my sin, Thou dost turn back to me now. And this, Thy
‘turing, *ysnan shall give me comfort in my remorse over my past errors.”
‘The essence of true ‏נחמה‎ is to permit the person to view his fate in a different
light (see Commentary to Gen. 6:6). “Indeed,” says David, “the very fact
that I have sinned but subsequently was able to overcome my error has
‏ש‎ caused me to gain in spiritual stature. The proofs of God’s greatness which
T have experienced, the growth in moral and spiritual strength which 1 have
attained in my inner struggle for self-discipline, these are things which I
‏שי‎ could never have acquired in any other manner,” This is quite in accordance
with what our sages teach us concerning the efficacy of true ‏גדולה :תשובה‎
‏תשובה שודונות נעשות לר בזביותת‎ (Yoma 86b),
‏יר‎ 22, ‘a1 ‏נבל .גם אני אודך‎ is ordinarily translated by “psaltery.””
Vv ‘We presume, however, (see Psalm 92:4) that ‏נבל‎ is the instrument of plain-
tive sound which expresses the emotion of “withering away” and “dying.”
David says, “Even while I still hold this instrument of plaintive sound in my
‏שי‎ bands, I thank Thee for Thy faithfulness. I thank Thee for Thou didst not
overlook my transgression, but hast truly proven to be ‏אלקי‎ by leading
me upward, through suffering, to the paths of ‏תשובה‎ that lead to Thee. And
T shall sing psalms in praise of the moral lesson which Thou hast taught me
Vv under Thy guidance in the discipline of nawn. I shall praise Thee as the
‘One Who, even as He has proven His greatness in my own life, asks that
also all the nation recognize Him as ‘the Holy One’ and give Him its unre-
Vv served devotion in all its life and aspirations.”
V. 23. ‏,תרנגה וג"‎ “All of my being rejoices that my soul can sing
--- Thy praises again. The mere fact 15811 am able once more to sing praises unto
_ ‘Thee—that is my delight. For my spiritual personality was in danger of
perishing. It was alxeady ‘forfeited’ to destruction and Thou hast ‘redeemed’
| it” (see Psalm 31:6}.