fulness unto the clouds. 9

‎“Even now,” David declares, “I awaken my own‏ .עורה גג" .9 ער

‎5 “honor.” No man is more justified in awakening withia himself his “honor,”

‎0 the inalienable awareness of his own spiritual and moral worth, than the

‎innocent person who, through no fault of his, bas been robbed of all his

‎possessions. He is fully justified in employing his self-respect thus regained

‎to sustain him when vicious slander attempts to deprive him even of this

‎Jast precious treasure which man carries within his breast and which is‏ ש

‎unattainable to the thievish grasp of his foes. No man has a greater right

‎to “pride” than he who has been unjustly persecuted. ‏.עורה וג‎ And to-

‎gether with this spiritual and moral self-respect which helps him withstand‏ ש

‎the dangers of the moment, David receives the inspiration of song which

‎can make even the bitterest blow of fate a theme for a hymn in praise of

‎God's greatness. ‏,אעירה שחר‎ and, employing his own spiritual resources,

‎David can take the darkest night of aflliction and tum it into the dawn‏ ש

‎of a new day.

‎V. 10, ‏.אודך‎ This is perhaps the proudest word that any man has

‎ever spoken, and the manifestation of which we experience even today and‏ שי

‎through all eternity. Here we see a Jew, in flight, persecuted, hiding in a

‎dack cave in the midst of a desert in ancient Palestine, who, in all his

‎misery, can still speak as follows, ‘xm, Thon hast chosen me to be Thy

‎Vv servant and Thy instrument, to sing praises unto Thee amidst the peoples

‎and the nations. Let every experience that Thou wilt send me here on earth

‎be fumed into the theme of a new song, so that I may employ it to broad-

‎and the‏ (עמים) ‎cast the acknowledgement of Thee among human society‏ שי

‎recognition of Thy greatness among the powers that rule over men ‏(לאמים)‎ ."

‎And indeed, to this very day, no other word has ever attained more Literal,
iving reality than has this one word of praise and exaltation.

‎—_ V. 11. "wm ‏.כי גדול‎ “And this,” David declares, “shall be the theme

‎| of my hymn in praise of God's rule among men: God's loving-kindness