fulsill the will of the Lord. Psalm 15 now briefly outlines the requirements
that must be met by him who would enter this Sanctuary as the House of
his God and who would regard his entire life as being based upon the ideals
deposited in this Sanctuary, so that he may be able to meet with confidence
A whatever fate may bring.
‏.ה' מי יגור באהלך וגו‎ The term ‏גור‎ denotes only a brief sojourn, while
‏שבך‎ is a permanent residence in one place. ‏אהלך.‎ is the Temple in which the
worshippers stay for only a short period of time. ‏הר קדשך‎ is that ascent
which leads to the Temple heights. The term wip ‏,הר‎ however, includes
the entire City of God, and, in fact, all the Holy Land. Once all mankind
will look to Zion as the lofty center of its sanctification, then all the earth
will be known as ‏.הר קדשו‎ See Commentary to Exod, 15:17; Ps. 78:54,
48:2; Zech. 8:3; Daniel 9:16; Isaiah 11:9. We enter the Temple in order
to renew there, in the presence of God, our understanding and resolutions
5, for serving Him with all our lives, The resolutions taken in the Sanctuary,
7 however, are to be carried out not in the Temple itself, but in the spheres
of everyday life which surround the Temple, the focal point of their sanctifi-
cation, According to Psalm 92, we should be “planted” in the Temple, so
that we may bear the right “blossoms of fruit” in the “chambers” that sur-
‏שי‎ round the Sanctuary, ‏שתולים בבית ה' בחצרות אלקיגו יפריחו‎ (Ps. 92:14), David
mostly refers to the Sanctuary of the Law as ‏,בית‎ the permanent definite abode
in which God comes closer to that man who truly secks His neamess in His
Law. Here, too, we could have expected the Psalmist to say ‏ביתך‎ rather
Vv than ‏,אהלך‎ since there is mention here at the same time of ‏,הר קדשך‎ the
mountain of the Temple. ‘This “mountain” is the ascent to the ‏,בית עולמים‎
‘that permanent “House of God” sought by David (Psalm 132) and not the
‏שי‎ ascent to the ‏,אהל ומשכן‎ the wandering Sanctuary of God's Law. We believe,
however, that the expression ‏אהלך‎ was chosen on purpose here in order to
describe the Divine Sanctuary as that “wandering” Sanctuary which accompa-
nies us in spirit even in the Diaspora, Our own synagogues in the Galuth,
Vv our ‏,מקדש מעט‎ serve as symbols to remind us of our central Sanctuary in
Jerusatem. This psalm immediately follows Psalm 14 which sang of the
strength which Israel gains in exile from the Sanctuary in Zion. Thus, accord-
‏שי‎ ing to the opinion of our sages, David, in Psalm 61:5 ‏אגורה באהלך עולמים‎
expresses the prayer that his memory might remain forever in Israel's houses of
prayer and study, immortalized through the spiritual influence of his psalms,
‏כתיב אנורה באהלך עולמים וכי תעלה על דעתך שדוד בקש דירה שני עולמים אלא אמר‎
v ‏יהי קורין ומזמרין אותי בבתי כנסיות ובבתי מדרשות כאילו אני קיים‎ (Yalkut to 5.
1). Cf. also Psalm 27:5, 6.
In brief, then, Verse 1 poses a question: “Who may enter the house
-- of the Lord, and who may have the right to say that all his sojourn on earth
| has taken place upon the mountain that leads up to the heights of God's
Sanctuary?”