and ny glory; the rock of my for- ‏מַחָסִי באלתים:‎ R

titude, and my refuge, is in God.
‏.משאתו להדיח יעצו ירצר כזבב‎ “Their feigned concem, the exaggerated anxiety
5 with which they crowd around me” (Verse 4), says David, “is all intended
- to induce me to stray from my station, my ‘standpoint’ which is high above
their own and is oriented toward God. They have chasen 3:3 hypocrisy and
deceit to carry out their evil intention.” ‏,כפיו יבדכו‎ and not ‏;כפיהם‎ hence
the thought set down in the second part of the verse would appear to be
‏ש‎ as follows, “They bless with his mouth,” that is, “they take on hls manner
of thought and speech for their own purposes.” Cf, ‏ואחריהם בפיהם ירצו‎

(Psalm 49514).
‏ש‎ V. 6,7. ‏וגל‎ 1%. David repeatedly and firmly replies “yx” ete. to
these attempts to lead him astray. “However severe the stern judgment of
God's decree may scem to me, and however harsh the trials which He, as
‘pbx, may ordain for me, still He shall remain the sole source from which
Vv 1 shall derive and maintain peace of mind for today and hope for tomorrow.
Any attempt to sway me from my firm conviction shall be in vain.” ‏דמי‎
‎derived from nn7, may mean cither “to be silent," as in ‏זידם אהרן‎ (Lev.
‏ש‎ 10:3), or “to wait,” as in ‏שמש בגבעון דום‎ (Joshua 10:12). "ay ‏אך הא צורי‎
is a repetition of Verse 3, with the omission of the word ‏רבה‎ lending added
stress. “Not only will I not be swayed to any great degree," says David,
“nay, I shall not be swayed at all.” Verse 6 repeats the thought of Verse 2,
Vv with added stress. Unlike Verse 2, we do not have here ‏,אל אלקים דמי נפשי‎
“toward God,” which would imply that God is far away, but ‏לאלקים דמי נפשי‎
which indicates the endeavor of man’s spirit to come close to Him. Hence
‏שי‎ also, unlike Verse 2, we do not have here, ‏ממנו ישועתי‎ which would mean,
“the salvation which we stil] must await,” but ‏ממנו תקותי‎ which expresses
en the thought that “He bas already fulfilled the hope which I bear within my
breast. The mere fact that I am still capable of feeling hope at all is
--- assurance to me that, even in the midst of my present affliction, God is
| very near.”

Uy tenn mem bee Tce cee te