(Prov, 28:10); ‏כבוד זכמים ינחלו‎ (Prov. 3:35); ‏להנחיל אהבי יש‎ (Prov. 8:21);
‏זאת נחלת עבדיר‎ (Isaiah 54:17); ‏ונחלת עריצים משדי יקתו‎ (Job. 27:13); ‏תחלת‎
‏שדי ממרומים‎ (Job 31:2), Thus mins denotes the final achievements attained
by man on earth through his loyalty—or his disloyalty—to his duties. ‏למנצח אל‎
‏הנחילות‎ refers to God, Who helps us attain spiritual, inner victory with regard.
- to that destiny awaiting us, here, on carth, in accordance with the direction
‘out lives have taken. ‘To Him Who helps us attain victory in our achicve-
ments in life’ (see end),
Y. 2,3. ‏אמרי‎ are those thoughts that have already become clear
enough to be expressed in words. ‏הגיגל‎ is thinking that 15 still in the meditat-
‏ש‎ ive stage. ‘ww is the cry for help, the plea for ‏,השועה‎ for succor in dire
distress. ‏אזך ,האזינה‎ is the ear, and ‏מאזנים‎ is a scale, mH is “to weigh, to
ponder”. Thus ‏אזנים‎ are the two scales for the examining and critical weighing
Vv of the spoken word, ‏האזין‎ is to incline the ear for such critical acceptance.
‏ביך‎ is the fathoming of that which lies deep down below the surface. The ‏מבין‎
‎is the spiritual ‏הבינים‎ wx, who places himself “into the midst” of circum~
stances, “meditates upon them” in order to find out “from amidst them” the
4 results of their “reciprocal” bearing upon one another, See Commentary to
Gen. 41:32,
‏קשב‎ denotes the attention awakened by the sounds penetrating the
Vv ear, anxiety to hear more, hearkening. Used in the Kal form it refers to the
activity of the ear. ‏חחני שומעים תקשבנה‎ (Isaiah 32:3); its Hiphil form is
‏נהקשיב‎ meaning: the action of the intellect which activates the sense of
‏שי‎ hearing. Perhaps ‏קשב‎ is related to ‏,כסף‎ “to yearn” for something, since
hearkening and listening are the result of a yearning to hear more.
David beseeches God’s nearness in all the impulses of his soul—in his
speech, his thinking and in his prayers. ‘The Lord is his “King” and his
Vv “God”. It is He that determines his position in lifes it is to Him that all of
David's existence and all his aspirations belong. Therefore David asks that
--- the Lord, as his “King”, be near him when he prays, and that, as his "God",
He also be near unto him in his speech and thoughts. ‏.כי אליך אתפלל‎ For all
‘of David's impulses, all his words, his thoughts and his prayers, are expres-
| sions of his desire to bring bis spirit closer to God through the power of