‎ane)‏ וה
‎and peaceful persuasion, shoutd come to submit to the spiritual and ethical de-‏
‎mands made known to them by you. If, however, they will not be receptive‏
‎in this manner to the realization of the goal of mankind, if it will become‏
‎necessary to use force to overcome their resistance to God, then they will‏
‎break into pieces devoid of power, like potters’ vessels struck by a rod of‏
‎“to‏ ,רע ‎is the future tense of the “Kal” inflection, derived from‏ תרעם ‎iron.”‏

‎5 break”, with the suffix.

‎Anyi, “And now,” says David, “since this is God's design‏ .10 ףר ב
‎then comprehend this, bring‏ ,השכילו ‎which has been irrevocably proclaimed,‏
,מוסר ‎it to your understanding, View: submit on your own initiative to the‏
‎to instruction and discipline; submit yourselves to the moral law. You, who,‏

‎desire to put earthly affairs in order, must first acknowledge the‏ שוסטר ארץ ‎as‏ ש
‎Divinely-revealed moral law as one Absolute that stands supreme aver you‏
‎and over all others. Make this Iaw your standard and the guiding principle‏
‎cof your lives and of the lives of the nations that are to be shaped by you.”‏

‎“Consecrate yourselves to the service of the Lord.‏ .עכדר וג ‎‘V. HL.‏ ש
‎Serve God with your labors as the princes and rulers of the lives of nations.‏
‎Let the fulfillment of His will, the realization of His purposes, the bringing‏

‎about of His kingdom on earth, be the goal of your strivings. mxva—in‏ שי
‎constant realization of His greatness and of the supremacy of His will against‏
‎which whatever contrary opinions or desires you may harbor shall be bent‏
.ירא ,יראה ‎and shriveled to complete insignificance.” This is the significance of‏

‎4 ‏.ברע ,גדע‎ See Gen, 59.

‎The greatest joy, articulate joy (probably related to‏ .גילה. ‎tou.‏ ברעדה

‎Yap), the most joyous emotion, The tremulous feeling of “brokenness,” ‏,רעדה‎

‎is not the mood in which the Divine service of our endeavors in life should be‏ שי
‎fulfilled. It is only in serene joyousness that man as a whole blossoms forth‏

‎and that those energies are liberated which man needs in order to discharge

‎his task, But this unclouded joy is found only ‏,ברעדה‎ in the complete dis-

‎Vv appearance of any opposition to the will of God, in the awareness of the fact
that, without God, we are nothing and that our being and striving begin to
have some meaning only if we permit them to be completely absorbed in

‎— God and His will. If we attach ourselves to the great sovereign purpose of

‎| God with our every achievement, great or small, then no contribution of
ours, however small, shall be fost, and we mav reioice in it even if it is all that