of “solving.” Verse 6 tells of the riddle that troubled the psalmist and the
answer which be found with the aid of his harp.
‏.ל‎ 6. Sa ‏.למה אירא‎ The statement ‏אל הירא כי יעשר איש‎ in Verse 17
would indicate that the “fear 19 which reference is mado in Verse 6 is
not caused by dread of physical peril. ‘The reason for the psalmist’s alarm
‘was the fear that he might fail to fulfil his true purpose in life. ‘The cause
of his uneasiness was the realization that he had received only a very
5 meager portion of those material possessions the acquisition and attainment
- of which most others regard as the sole goal and purpose of their existence
on earth. If one takes such a view of life, then, of course, the. question of
man’s destiny on earth seems a difficult riddle indeed. If the destiny and
therefore the value of each human life is in direct refation to the amount
‏שי‎ of tangible earthly goods acquired, then man has little control over whether
or not he fulfills bis destiny and only a minute fraction of humanity could
succeed in doing so, If this were indeed so, then of course he on whom
fortune has tumed its back, as it were, could be justified in fearing that,
‏ש‎ once he is deprived of the tangible wealth that the earth has to offer, his
Iife will also lose its real worth, However, we are told in this psalm as
follows: “Why should I have such fears at times when my ruaterial fortunes
‏שי‎ seem low, when ‏עקבי יסבני‎ ny?” We do not have here ‏אשורי‎ Ny, ‏,רגלי ,פעמי‎
a statement which would indicate a sin that lies before us as we walk upon
the path through life, a sin which we commit consciously and on purpose.
Instead, the psalm speaks of »3py py, sins that “lie behind our heels,”
‏ש‎ which we overlook as we go through life, wrongs that we have done due to
carelessness and fevity. (Cf. Comm. to Deut. 7:12). Viewing life with a
more mature outlook gained from the inspiration of his song, the psalmist
‏שי‎ has come to see that ‏,ימי רע‎ the “evil days,” when happiness hes fled, mostly
come upon those who have sinned, not on purpose, deliberately or because
of evil intention, but simply because of the lack of a sense of duty which
should have led them to weigh carefully every step of life's journey, It is
‏ש‎ ‘upon men such as this that the Lord brings sad days, in order to summon
them to earnest introspection and to train them to be more attentive to
their duty. It is only people who are still capable of profiting by such
— training that receive God’s chastiscment, for “Whom the Lord loves, He
| corrects and wishes to make him worthy of His favor, like a father woutd
his son (Prov. 3:12), while those who are incorrisible are left in 2 state