preservation, self-aggrandizement and self-defense. Israel was that nation !
in the world which was completely lost. Tt had only its God, and this God |
‘was ridiculed by brutal power which saw in this most powerless and defense- |
Iess of all peoples merely a piece of flotsam delivered to the mercy of violent,
arrogant lust. And yet this very people, helpless, dispersed among the
nations of the world, bas been the historical exclamation point, God's finger
in world history which kept alive the spark of recognition of the “One and
Only God” when everyone elso had forgotten Him. It is the continned
existence of this invincible and historically immortal nation that has demon-
3S, strated God's presence in history. For, it is asked here in this Psalm, has it not
0 ever been thus, whencver violent nations have planned to devour this people
as one feeds upon a defenseless morsel? It has always becn at such times that
they Jearned to know of God, Whom they had “uot invited” to their ‏,"גת"‎
‎and Whose existence, presence and will they had forgotten to take into
Vv account when they persisted in their ways of violence.
‏,קראר‎ like ‏וקרא לך ואכלת מזבחו‎ (Exod. 34:15); nara ‏וקראת לישי‎ (Sam, 1
16:3); ‏אחרי כך יאכלו הקרואים‎ (Sam, 1 9:13( and elsewhere.
‏וג ,5 ער שי‎ sma ow, There they leamed to fear an invisible Power,
PYTE ‏.בי אלהי' בדור‎  קידצ‎ is the diametrical opposite of ‏.נבל‎ The ‏,נבל‎ enslaved
to his lustful desires, has forfeited alt his moral freedom. The ‏,צדיק‎ on the |
other hand, who has retained his unfettered moral Hberty, has put himself
v and all his thoughts and desires into the service of God and His Law. The
‏צדיק‎ is the man who is devoted to bis duty. ‏דור‎ usually denotes a generation
of contemporary society (Commentary to Gen. 1:22, 7:1), but is also
‏ש‎ employed to indicate a series of historical events; e.g. ‏הדורות מראש‎ KT?
(saiah 41:4). Thus the entire history of Israel in particular is called ‏.דור‎
‏מי ישוחח‎ vat ‏ואת‎ (“Who can rationally express Israel's history?” [Isaiah
53:8}. Who can retell this story genetically—mv from the root onward as
‏ה תג ש‎ plant?) Thus, too, the word ny, “time”, is used in connection with
events of time and destiny. ‏עתותי‎ Tra (Psalm 31:16), ‏והיה אמונת עתיך‎
(Isaiah 33:6) and elsewhere. It is quite likely that ‏דור‎ is also employed here
‏ש‎ in this sense, When this most powerless and defenseless among the nations,
which has only its God and its obedience to Him, will be the only one to
en emerge victoriously from all the centuries of attempts to destroy it—then
mankind, which now no longer sees God because it has been blinded by
——— earthly might and grandeur, will eventually be able to recognize the band of
| God in Israel's history.