. ‏,לולא ,לולא האמנתי וגר ,13 יש‎ “GE not,” as in ‏לולא התמהמהנר‎ (Gen.

43:10) and elsewhere, According to the accent and also to the commonly

5 used construction of the ‏לולא‎ with the verb following, it would seem that
- here, too, the meaning of the phrase would be “had I not believed.”
However, we bave no postscript here. Accordingly, it would seem that the

thought would be completed by the addition of the phrase “and my enemies

would have thrown me down had 1 not held fast to my faith that 1

Vv would look upon the goodness of the Lord one day in the land of eternal
life,” that is, in the world to come, ‏עלמא‎ “mT ‏,בארעא‎ as the ‏תרגום‎ transtates

it. The context, however, gives us no indication that this would be the correct

interpretation here and awn ‏ארץ‎ could hardly mean “the land of eternal

v life.” For all the places in the Scriptures where ‏ארץ חיים‎ or even ‏ארץ הוזיים‎
‘occur, very definitely do not speak of an abode of future eternal Bfe ia the

Great Beyond, but of a place of earthly life here below, or of a “land of the

‎(Psalm‏ ארץ חיים ‎living” as opposed to a place of death or of the dead. Cf.‏ שי
‎Isaiah 53:8, Jeremiah 11:19, Ezekiel 26:20, 32:23--27 and 32),‏ ,52:7

‎and ‏ארץ החיים‎ (Psalm 142:6, Job 28:13, Isaiah 38:11) and ‏ארצות החיים‎

‎in Psalm 116:9. Therefore we believe that the word ‏לולא‎ as used here

‎v would indicate a thought as follows, “If this had not been, if the ‏עדי שקר‎
‏וופת חמס‎ had not risen up against me, then I would have believed that I

‎woutd be able to look upon the Lord’s goodness here below, during my life

‎Vv on earth, and not only after my departure from earthly existence.” “All
other tribulations would not be able to disturb my enjoyment of such bliss

‎even on earth below. It is only the stander and aspersions cast upon me

‎by my foes that grieve me so deeply—(in a somewhat mitigated form, how-

‎Vv ever—therefore the vocalization showing limitation, see Deut. 29:28)—and
it is only against these slanderers that I call upon the help of the Lord.”

‎V.14, ‏וגו'‎ mp. Wait upon the Lord and, even if your hopes should

‎—— remain unfutfilled for the present, remain strong, gather new courage from
| your heart, and never cease to hope. magi ‏ראה אדם שהתפלל ולא‎ OK

‎pees: see fa Bu en mene hemes neers‏ לבך וקוה אל הי