praise for bis hearts desire, OF ye
man of greed says a blessing, he mim ys 7a wi

has mocked the Lord.

of the existence of God in general, or at least the refusal to believe that God

has power over human, earthly affairs, is the basic assumption of all those

persevering in defiant lawlessness, Shortsighted man is convinced that only

some sort of visible demonstration of God’s presence in the affairs of human

3 society could put a stop to the spread of such lawlessness.

It is clear that these two psalms have similar trends of thought. For
mph, see Commentary to Exod. 32:11.  ערלמ,‎ “for what purpose”. “For
what purpose is it that Thou standest afar off; why dost Thou not inquire
into human affairs?” mbyn—here the object is missing. Thus, generally

v speaking, ‏תעלים לעשות‎ would mean “Thou permittest Thy acts, Thy rule, to
remain hidden”. Or it may be an intensification of ‏ברחק‎ ‘ayn; not only
‏,תעמוד ברחוק‎ but even ‏.תעלים עמוד‎ “Not only dost Thou stand afar off and

‎dost not intervene io the course of events, but Thou even allowest Thy‏ שי
‎in these dark days before‏ ,לעתות בצרה ‎presence to remain entirely hidden,”‏
‎the time of universal redemption, when we must still suffer distress and‏
‎hardship. See Psalms 9, 10.‏

‎v ‘V.2. ‏קנ ,בגאות רשע וגו'‎ is not exactly the poor man who js entirely
destitute. It rather denotes, in general, him who is dependent upon others
for his existence, such as pax; “he who is dependent in his desires”,

‎Vv who must submit to the will of another, (See Comm. to Deut, 15:4). It is
pride, arrogance which refuses to bow to any authority, including to that of
God Himself, that drives the lawless to misuse the dependence of others to
the detriment of the latter, The wicked man's ego is inflated by the thought

‎Vv that ‏,יתפשו וגל‎ other men are caught in the plans laid by him; to him this
type of success is the triumph of his shrewdness and his power. ‏:השכר‎ here
the word ‏דשל‎ represents a class in human society,

‎Vv V.3. | ‏וגו"‎ 997°, A man imbued with the fear of God knows that
if his wishes are fulfilled he owes it to the Lord, and he expresses his grati-

‎--- tude in words of ‏.הלל‎ He locks upon every material possession he has won,
as a blessing granted him by God, He feels that whatever wealth he may
have amassed was given him only so that he might use it “to bless the Lord”;

‎| Le. that he might employ it on behalf of tho realization of God’s intentions