nd
‏תחלים ז‎ 40
of “Why?”. In the second chapter, the prophet has already received the an-
swer to his question. True, the 77, the final universal obvious judgment of God
is slow in coming. God's ultimate decree is yet distant and can be seen only in
the spirit ‏,הזון למועד‎ and yp? ‏ויפח‎ gives an ominous intimation of this ultimate

‎‘goal, yet 27 xb, this does not mean that we have been deceived. He who puts‏ א
‎Dx‏ יממהמה ‎his trust in God must patiently await the final coming of justice, non‏
וצדיק באמונתו ‎and must draw renewed vigor from this unshakable faith.‏ ,לר
‎sem, Moreover, even before the coming of that day of judgment, the world‏
‎will not succumb to the violence of the wicked because ail evil, all insolence‏
‎the‏ ,תפלה ‎and violence will eventually bring about its own destruction. This‏
‎meditation in the third chapter of the Book of Habbakuk, is devoted to the‏
‎The content and course of this chapter in the‏ .על שגיונות ‎lesson derived‏
‎Book of Psalms take much the same form. In Verses 2—6 David sees him-‏
‎self threatened by the most ruthless persecution and undeserved slander.‏
‎Therefore, in Verses 7—8, he allows himself to cry out to God to bring about‏

‎5 the promised universal Divine judgment as regards David's own fate, through
which mankind as a whole will thon be made to recognize God's greatness.
In Verse 9 and the verses that follow, however, be retreats from this Jook
into the future as if from an intellectual fallacy and remembers that Divine

‎justice rules supreme even now, even at this time when God's direct inter-‏ ש
‎vention has not yet openly manifested itself. The righteous man will find‏
‎his support in it, while the wicked man digs his own grave by his acts of‏
‎violence.‏

‎is that song‏ שיר .שגיון ‎TT)‏ אשר שר לה' וגו' ‎Therefore Verse 1 reads‏ ש
‎which sces the hand of God in every event and which sings of the manifes-‏
‎tation of God's greatness as it reveals itself in such occurrences. According to‏

‎in the feminine form, indicates a song in‏ ,שירה ‎the teaching of our sages,‏ ש
‎praise of the manifestation of God in history which Ieads to the ultimate,‏
‎the masculine form, on the other hand, denotes a‏ מ! שיר | ‎final redemption.‏
‎hymn in praise of the actual redemption which constitutes the manifestation‏

‎v of God's greatness. See Comm. to Gen. 9:21. ‏בן ימיגי‎ m3, see Comm. to
Num. 12:1. wo, the Kushite, the blackfellow, is generally regarded as a
designation of the most inferior tribe of the human race. The tribe of

‎Benjamin, on the other hand, was considered most noble, Israel's “tribe of‏ שי
‎kings”, because Saul had been chosen from among its midst to rule as king‏
‎over all of Israel. The fact that a king who was guilty of such moral iniquities‏
‎as was Saul in his dealings with David could come from Israel, and particular-‏

‎Vv Iy from the clan of Benjamin, that “tribe of kings", seemed to David to be a
moral deviation tantamount to the genetic deviation that would be represented
by the birth of a lowly Kushite from that noble tribe in Israel. The experience

‎——— of such a moral deviation seemed to him so grave a threat for the entire
future of mankind that he thought that God Himself would now intervene
with His great judgment of the nations. And thus he felt called upon to utter