= אהי כ בשויל ‎put my trust; Jet me not be de- (MWS AY‏ אש
‎rhs‏ אבי ‎ceived, let my enemies not tri- pb‏
‎umph over me. ? wer?‏
‎PSALM XXV‏
‎or‏ מזמור לדוד ‎not‏ ,לדוד ‎V. 1. The superscription to this psalm is‏
‎Here we do not see David gaining inspiration on the wings of‏ .71 מזמורר
‎song, nor do we have here the outpourings of Divine rapture coming from‏
‎a fall heart. In this psalm, David simply states the emotions and thoughts‏ 5
‎that fill his soul. The alphabetical arrangement of the verses shows us that‏ 5
‎David intended this psalm to be kept not only before his own eyes, but in‏
‎the minds of all of the rest of mankind by constant repetition, ‘The last verse‏
‎of the psalm was added by David when he made this psalm part 5‏
‎national collection of hymas. In this manner all the preceding verses, which‏ שי
‎seemed to apply only to one individual, were now made to apply to al of‏
‎Israel as well.‏
‎As can be seen from the concluding verses of the psalm (beginning‏
‎Vv with Verse 15), David is beset by dangers resulting from the hatred of his‏
‎fellow men. Yet his heart is still set only upon attaining moral and spiritual‏
‎perfection which ke knows he can seek and find only with the help and‏
‎guidance of the Lord. David knows, too, that whatever joy or sorrow God‏ שי
‎will send him are intended solely to help him reach this goal. ‘Therefore the‏
‎only way to bring closer that time when all pain and sorrow will be at an‏
‎end is to work independently at achieving the eads for which all the trouble‏
‎v was visited upon him.‏
,נשא לשוא נפשי ‎Pox, In Verse 4 of Psalm 24, the phrase‏ ה' נפשי אש
‎was used to show the antithesis to the goal that should be attained‏ ,כתיב נפשר
‎by man on this earth. This expression denotes a person who turns his soul,‏ שי
‎which comes from the Lord and still belongs to Him, to vain and transitory‏
‎won, “he has not‏ לא חיה ,22 ‎things, or, as is stated in Verse 30 of Psalm‏
‎allowed his soul to unfold to true life.” As opposed to this debasement of‏
‎“Unto Thee, o Lord, do I lift up‏ ,אליך גפשי אשא ‎Vv the soul, we have here,‏
‎Thee, All my soul's striving 15 directed to tho‏ סו ‎my soul. 1 turn it entirely‏
‎attainment of Thy nearness” (see Commentary to Deut, 24:15).‏
‎Thou, art He, Whom‏ ,אלקי" .6:11 ‎see Psalm‏ אבושה ,אלהי וגל = .2 ‎V.‏ --
‎I acknowledge as the ruler of my destiny and as the guide of all my acts,‏ |