Ns

in humble circumstances can fulfill only in a small measure. What is much
more significant is ton ‏,גמילות‎ the beneficial effect of cur own personality,
of our own mental, moral and physical facultics upon the world around us,
‘And every one of us has within himself the ability for great achievement

in this respect.
V. 22, ‘im ‏.בי מבודכיר‎ David stated in the preceding verse that a
‏רשע‎ amasses a large pile of material possessions without paying for theso
5, acquisitions in the coin of services rendered. The pts, on the other hand,
0 ‏ב‎
‎only a small portion of earthly goods and pleasures in return for his pains.
Verse 22 gives us the reason for this paradoxical situation as regards the
‏רשע‎ and the ‏.צדיק‎ The Divine blessing which can be won through a life of
‏שי‎ duty fullfilled, of forfeited though lifelong scoring of God's Law cannot be
measured by the extent of the material wealth or comfort a person may
attain while he is on earth. David tells us here that reward and punishment
‏ש‎ are measured in terms that are quite different in nature. ‏מברכיו "ירשו ארץ‎
and ‏.מקלליו יכרתו‎ We have already seen that the promise ‏ירש ארץ‎ extends
far beyond the present day. It refers to that future time when mankind
shall have reached the goal set for it and when men by their own loyalty
Vv to their duty, shall have won all the rest of the earth for the causo of
making God's kingdom a reality in the world. The ‏צדיק‎ devotes all of
his life for this purpose. Indeed, he brings about the carly beginnings of
‏ש‎ this glorious era by stamping the impress of God’s service not only upon
himself, but also upon his children, his relatives, and upon all those who
come within the scope of his influence and whom he may call his own.
He plants within them the seeds of Divine worship which they, as his heira,
v will pass on, until, one day, together with the heritage left behind by all
the other ‏צדיקים‎ in the world, these secds will at last sprout forth as the
glorious harvest of truth and light, of love and justice, of the sanctification
‏שי‎ of Iife, and the harbingers of eternal salvation on earth. Therefore every
‏צדיק‎ who has lived his life in a constant endeavor to do his duty, shall live
— on in the ever purer conduct and ever-more fruitful life of his physical and
spiritual posterity. In this manner he attains immortality even on earth
7-- below, and he will live on even in the lives of the generations of the re-
| motest future, of which generations it is said in Psalm 25:13 that ‏חרקו‎
‎TR wy. According to one interpretetinn the avnrercian ‏"רל‎ we an in