this word that we derive IR, “guest, ‏אדוחה‎ “Hospitality,” and ‏אורחה‎

“caravan” which travels 10 visit the inhabitants of another land for business

purposes, Therefore it is said in Isaiah 2:3: ‏.ויורנו מדרכיו ונלכה באורתותיו‎

The “ways of morality’—iccluding the laws of ‏מאכלות אסורות‎ and ‏--עריות‎

which were taught in Israel, were intended in their entire scope only for

Israel in its capacity as an ‏.ממלכת כהנים וגוי קדוש‎ Only a limited part of

this code shall one day become the common property of all of mankiad,

Therefore Isaiah says ‏מדרכיו‎ instead of ‏דרכיו‎ im. ‏,אורחותיו‎ however, the

teachings of right and social justice, of righteousness and love shall one day

5 become part of the life of all mankind, without exception. Therefore Isaiah

\ונלכה באורתותיו ‎says‏ 5

‎“Let me recognize the goals toward which Thy ways are‏ .הרפיך גנול

‎directed, and also those toward which I should strive in accordance with

‎‘Thy will and with the example that Thou hast set.” The expression ‏דרכי ה'‎

‎would denote either the ways in which God Himself walks or those which‏ שי

‎He has prescribed for us to follow. Similarly ‏אורהתיך‎ can express cither

‎God’s relationship to man or man's own conduct toward others in accordance

‎with His will, The fact that the word ‏למדני‎ is used in this connection would

‎Vv indicate that in both these instances the last-mentioned interpretation should

‎be accepted as the correct one. For the word ‘hz has the connotation

‎not of mere theoretical learning, but specifically the practical implementation

‎Vv of what has been learned. It also connotes practice, accustoming and training

‎(see Commentary to Deut, 4:1), The forms of ‏למד‎ in ‘i? ‏בעגל לא‎

‎(Psalm 144:1),‏ המלמד ידי לקרב ,)3:8 ‎(Cant.‏ מלומדי מלחמה ,)31:17 ‎(Jeremiah‏

‎(Judges 3:31)‏ מלמר ‎are all employed to express this same thought. Thus "par‏ ש

‎is “the driving force,” and, in Mishnaic usage, the word ‏למודין‎ (Kelim 5:9)

‎is “ripeness.” Accordingly, the fulfillment of our duties toward our fellow

‎men, the keeping of the ‏ה'‎ niNvN, would require even more training and

‎Vv practice than does the fulfillment of our individual duty toward God, the

‎walking in the ’n 2%. If we but consider, for instance, how difficult it is

‎to observe conscientiously just one prohibition, for example the ban against

‎nw, then we can readily understand that moral loyalty in our dealings‏ הרע שי

‎with our neighbors is indeed a skill which, if we are to attain perfection

‎--- in it, requires far more practice than do any of the arts that receive so much
admiration from men.

‎¥. 5. "oT. The sum total of ‏דרכיך‎ and ‏ארחותיך‎ is ‏.אמהך‎

‎| the truth of life which teaches man to behave properly in the multiplicity