3S, himselt, 100660, the King is the “first 5 and hence it is expected tat le,
in particular, place the fulfillment of the duties enjoined by Judaism before
all else, and that he discharge his task to the greatest possible extent. There-
fore, if God's Law commands every single Jew ‏לא העמוד על דם רעך ,הוכת תוכיח‎
‏את עמיתך‎ (Lev. 19:16, 17) and charges every individual with the task of

Vv safeguarding the moral welfare and the material prosperity of his fellow
men, then the king, as the first Jew of them all, must, by personal example,
Tead his nation in the fulfillment of this Divine commandment. For he, as

Vv the king, is uniquely qualified to act in behalf of the advancement of the
moral stature and the welfare of all (see Commentary to Deut. 17:14).

‎“and may the coming and going of generations not alter‏ ,דור דורים
‎this fear of God.”‏

‎Vv V. 6. "wT. And what shall be the position of the king amidst
this group which he must imbue with the fear of the Lord? ‏,ירד‎ “May he
descend, may he be as rain which comes down from on high into the lowest

‎Vv depths of the ground in order to bring its blessings there.” Indeed, Jewish
princes are called ‏נשיאים‎ and this same term is used also to denote “clouds.”
The princes are exalted, and they are saturated with the tife-blood and
strength of the nation, in order that, in retum, they employ these gifts for

‎Vv the benefit of the nation, cultivating and restoring every segment within its
society. This should be the king's concept of his role. Let him not serve
only the high and the mighty, for they do not need him, Rather let them,

‎too, leara from him to conceive of their own spiritual and material advan-‏ שי
‎tages solely as means by which they, too, shall become a blessing to all those‏

‎---- Tess fortunate than they are, It is significant that we read here not ‏כמטר עלי‎
avy, but ‏,כמטר על גז‎ “as rain upon the mown meadow,” as in ‏גזי המלך‎ (Amos

‎_ 7:1). The grass has been cut, and has thus suffered injury at the hands of
| others. And now the rain comes down and showers the cut and ruined

‎es ee ee es ‏ה‎