nd oo
‏תחלים םמ‎ 206
miry mod; He basset my feet upon ‏כו‎ sbi pberby npn aint
a rock, and firmly established my A oo
steps. omy

A 4) He has But a new son. into abo typ ‏י שר‎ +b we 0%
my mouth, a praise ol 5 ‏הרוי‎ way ‏להונ‎
‏עה‎ aot ‏מל‎ that many shall PRY NTY OAT BA
see, and fear, and at the same ara
time learn to trust in the Lord.

5) Forward strides that man Tim, DZ aan “wy 6
who has made the Lord the fount yim ‏אלְדְהָבים‎ ‘ne:
of his trust, and bas not turned to PY ‏מ סה דחי‎
the arrogant, nor to those who aR
2S, turn away in faithlessness and
deceit.
as in ony ‏שאו‎ (Isaiah 6:11), It also denotes spiritual desolation or bar-

v renness, vagueness or absence of all thought, ‏והאיש משתאה לה‎ (Gen, 24:21).
Tn a similar manner, we derive from ‏,שמם‎ as in ‏ישתומם לבי‎ (Psalm 143:4),
‏טיט‎ is “dirt,” “mud,” from which we derive ‏,טאטא‎ which is a Piet form like

Vv ‏,דש‎ and means “to remove dirt” or “to sweep clean” (Isaiah 14:23), The
etymology of 1 is obscure. According to its context, it means ‏"עונת"‎
‎David says, “I had sunk down into a pit in which 1 had lost my ability to

‎reason, There I was fettered by difficulties so great that I could not‏ שי
‎extricate myself from them, From this abject misery the Lord raised me.‏
‎In contrast to my former sad state, He has now led me to firm heights; He‏
‎has helped me stand erect and has Jed my steps aright once more.”‏

‎Vv ‏בפו וג" .4 שר‎ yA. “Then the Lord caused me to sing a new
song. This was not a song of thanksgiving for His acts of mercy, but 2 hyma
in praise of His radiant greatness in which He executes His judgment. It is

‎v a song declaring that the very sufferings which His righteous hand metes
‘out to us in order to discipline and train us actually constitute His greatest
ucts of loving-kindness. He put such a song in my mouth,” says David,

‎“so that the multitudes, ‘lookiog upon me,’ might Ieam from my own‏ ש
‎example to trust in the Lord even while they fear Him. For He, even as‏

‎a He rules and judges us as "pbx, is also ‏006-ה‎ at ail times to help us
attain a purer, happier future in our lives.”

‎— ‘V.S. nw, ‏,אשר שם‎ “who has set the Lord forever as the fount

‎| of his trust, who, regardless of his situation, never ceases to have faith in Him;

‎man who. even in the midet of ctrnes an? --7* 79" aonb ok ae ote‏ ם