own lives, can also bring destruction. Those who, like cedars, will attempt
to resist His power, have cause to fear His voice, for it will destroy them,
just as, in the realm of nature, the might of the Lord shatters cedars and
moves mountains, The voice speaking to us through God’s Law atso strikes
thunder like flames of fire; it kindles and flashes like Lightning. Or “it strikes

with flames of fire,” as in ‏חצבתי בנביאים‎ (Hosea 6:5),
5, VY. 8. wip ‏ה' וגו' יחיל ה' מדבר‎ dip. According to Sabbath 98a,
- ‏תוספר"‎ ibid., the entire Sinai desert bears the name of wip, as well as the
names of P%, ‏פארך‎ etc. Any of these names, which are primarily used to
designate definite localities within that desert, are also employed to refer
to the entire wilderness. In other words, this is the wilderness which

‎WTP.‏ ,קדסות ,פארן ,צין ,סיני ‎comprises the regions of‏ שי

‎was the border outpost of the wilderness from which the‏ קדשי
‎scouts were sent into the land of Canaan and from which the people of‏
‎Isracl could haye entered the Promised Land immediately, had the sin of‏
‎these emissaries not caused the entire nation to be condemned to 40 years‏ 4
‎of wandering in the wilderness, Since the journey of the children of Israel‏
‎from Egypt up to that point accounted for two years of wandering, they still‏
‎was.‏ קדס ‎had to spend 38 years in the desert before they could enter the land.‏ שי
‎the place where Israel had sinned, and there they sojourned for a period of 19‏
‎years, within sight of the Holy Land which that generation bad forfeited by‏
‎its transgression. See Commentary to Deut, 1:46, 2:1, At no other place‏ ש
קדש ‎in the desert did they remain for so ong a period of time, and thus‏
‎was the place in which the penitent parents raised and trained a new‏
‎generation which was to be worthy of a beiter future and of the Divinely-‏
‎therefore, is the‏ ,מדבר ‎Vv ordained inheritance of the Promised Land. wip‏
‎name which most vividly calls to mind the memories of the wildemess and‏
‎their significance for Israel's moral training and maturing for its destiny.‏
‎extends even to our own day and far into‏ מדבר קדש ‎‘This significance of the‏ שי
מדבר העמים ‎the future, Our own period of exile and wandering in the‏
‎“wilderness of the nations,” as the prophet calls it, was ordained when the‏ 008
‎Lord decided, at wip, that the particular generation then alive had forfeited‏
‎its inheritance of the Holy Land. Its children must be raised to maturity in‏ --
‎the desert so that they might be fit to take possession of the Land once‏ |