‎“as 7x3, Tt 1s significant that the instruction in the practical‏ ,14 ל
‎application of the fear of the Lord begins with the behest that we exercise‏
‎control aver our words, and, as we shall see, even over our thoughts. For‏ ,5
‎speech and thought are activities which we constantly practice. Hence‏ 7
‎there is no better task that we can set for ourselves, leading to the fear‏
‎of God and to be done in the fear of God, than to resolve tacitly and‏
‎before Him alone never to speak ill of one’s fellow-men, The fulfillment‏
‎of this one task requires a constant selfobservation and affords a unique‏ שי
‎opportunity for practice in attaining that control over oneself which is the‏

‎essential basis of all God-fearing moral endeavor.
‏שפה .נצר לשנך וגו' ושפתיך וגר‎ always denotes the spoken word
v which passes the lips, ‏שפה‎ the outermost border of man’s inner being.
‏,לשו‎ on the other hand, indicates that word which has not yet been uttered,
but is near the tongue, clamoring for- expression, Thus we read ‏ולשוני‎
‎Vv ‏תהגה צדקך‎ (Psalm 35:28), ‏הוות תהשב לשונך‎ (Psalm 52:4), ‏דברה לעוני‎
‏בחכי וגו' ודעת שפתי ברור מללר‎ (Job 33:2, 3), “my lips utter my words in a
refined. form, because my tongue has spoken them before in my palate;
that is, because I first tested and considered what I was going to say,
Vv without uttering it aloud.” As a matter of fact, we can think only by means
of the word as shaped by the tongue; that is, we can think only in terms
of words. It is only by means of a word, that is, a symbol composed of
Vv sounds to be uttered, that we can retain a thought. Therefore our training
course in the fear of the Lord must begin with practice in the control of
the thought which, though still unuttered, is already being mulled over by
‏שי‎ the tongue. We must keep our tongue far away from anything that is ‏רע‎
‎morally or socially evil, ‏וספתיך מדבר מרמה‎ and sincerity shall be the stamp
— of our speech, of the words that we do utter. In instances where we really
know of nothing good to say, we must practice the difficult art of keeping

‎—— silent,

‎| V. 15, ‏.סור מרע וג‎ ‘The 50606 lesson in our training course ia
the fear of the Lord is ‏סור מרס‎ “keep awen ‏החד-*‎ mete ae cane dn