of nothing but their own pride. Only when we freely and joyously render
homage to God, and when we discharge our life’s task on earth in His
service, will our earthly existence receive its true, eternal meaning. Only
then will earth become a paradise in which the voice of God shall be near
2S, to man. ‏,לפניו יכרעו‎ etc. Therefore all those on earth who had formerly
walked on the path of transiency that can end only in the dust shall kneel
before Him, as shall every man who previously had not permitted his soul
to attain true, genuine life. According to some expounders, ‏לא‎ would be
‏קרר‎ and ‏כתיב‎ and should be read as ‏.לד‎ The thought would remain the same,
‏ש‎ Namely, “he who previously had let his sout live only for himself (itselt).”
Actually such a self-centered existence is no life at all. It is also possible
that, though this occurs only in rare instances, the word ‏נפש‎ is meant to
‏שי‎ be in the masculine gender and wen would be the subject of the thought,
*,,.and he, whom his soul has not led to true life,” or " . . . he whom his
soul has allowed to live only for himself." ‘The basic sense of the thought,
of course, would remain unchanged regardless of which of the above inter-
Vv pretations is accepted.
‏יעבדנו .31 .ער‎ yo. The descendants of our own generation will
someday dedicate their lives to the service of God. At present He is only “My
‏שי‎ Master,” Israel is the only nation that accepts Him as its Master and that
‘walks on carth as “His scrvant." One day in the future, however, all the
rest of mankind, “historically speaking” will be “counted” as His generation.
‏ש‎ ‘That is the meaning that the word 780 secks to convey. Historically speak-
ing, they shall become the generation of the Lord; and shall begin to live
and act as such on earth. Their era shall be the beginning of the history
on earth of mankind dedicated to God.
Vv ‏באר וגל ,32 מ‎ they shall hand down the knowledge of God’s
— justice to their children, and they shall make clear to them the ‏צדקת ה'‎
which He has shown in all of past history in winning over and delivering
-- mankind. They shall make it plain to the nation, newly bom unto Him,
| that He has formed it, and that it has been the purpose of all the acts of
God's Sovereignty throuchout history. ON