RUDE, TOW Dat to Bee Mom His OWN ‏4י-ם-140101‎ and 506% 161086 among
the enemies of his people, because there was no safe place for him in the
35, midst of his own nation. Then, in order to escape death at the hands of
7 the foes among whom he had sought safety, David had to pretend that
‘he was an imbecile, and be had to deem it his good fortune that King Abi-
melech, thinking him to be a feeble-minded beggar, drove him away without
harming him. Cast down from the heights to such depths of despair, David
‏שי‎ here proclaims those cardinal truths that contain so much practical wisdom.
‏בשנותו וגו' וילך‎ (see Samuel 1, 21:14 ff). ‏טעם‎ primarily means “taste” and
therefore denotes “good sense” which examines and evaleates the material
nature of things in terms of whether or not they are “agreeable” to man.

Vv Freely translated, this would be the mental ability to recognize and evaluate
the truth and propriety of things and circumstances; in other words “insight,”
“understanding” or “good judgment.” ‏שנה‎ is “to change” an object, and

Vv also to show something in a different light from what it really is, as io
‏קומי גא והשתנית‎ (Kings 1, 14:2), “disguise yourself,” “pretend.” David
“disguised” his own intelligence; he pretended that he had lost his reason,
ho feigned insanity.

Vv ‘V.2, ‏.אברכה זגו"‎ “Now that I have had this experience,” says David,
“nothing can tear me away from such endeavors ("21 ‏(אברכה‎ or cause me to
ignore God's never-ceasing neamess ‏תהלתו וגו')‎ Pan). For 1 have remained

Vv upright even in the midst of misery such as this, and because I have not
Tost courage, 1 have attained not only the knowledge that I have fuliilled
the will of the Lord, but also the blissful awareness of the fact that He was

‎at my side, siding me in my endeavors to do my duty.” ny is the individual‏ ש
‎moment of time (sce Psalm 30:16).‏

‎—— ‏.בה' וגו" .3 ער‎ “Even now,” says David, “when my soul is despised
and rejected by meu, it knows that its dignity, its support, its existence and

‎its strength rest with the Lord. Let the ‏,ענוים‎ all those who must take a

‎| humble, lowly position in society, hear it and know that one may remain