following in Verse 9 ff indicates that David docs not have in mind here
such men as show him overt hostility. Instead, he refers here to those
who believe that, by taking advantage of his present vuhappy state and
making him waver in his trust in God, they could bring him down from his
3S, position of moral superiority and induce him to share their own base views
7 and way of life. ‏הדית‎ (Verse 5) is used primarily to denote inducement to
apostasy. (See Commentary to Deut. 13:6, 14). The means they employ
for this purpose is not violence, but ingratiating hypocrisy. Hence we
believe that we may interpret Wx, as used in this verse, as “a man,” denoting
‏שי‎ the trait of manliness, as in ‏הלא איש אתה‎ (I Sam, 26:15). The thought
conveyed by Verse 4, then, would be as follows: “How much longer will
you seek fo strike terror into me, who stand before you as a true man,
as if it were all of you that are being threatened by murder, and not merely
‏ש‎ I” That is, “You feign fear, as if you were faced with the same danger as
1am. You act as if the fact that the wall of my house is leaning slightly
would indicate that even the fences had, already been broken down. You
‏שי‎ see me now, somewhat weaker than I am wont to be, in my misfortune, and
therefore you think that every barrier between yourselves and me has van-
ished, and that anyone, even he whose moral conduct is least worthy, may
force himself upon me with impunity. It is as if you had seen the wall of a
‏ש‎ house leaning slightly and thus concluded that anyone could enter now and
tear down the house.” It is also possible that ‏ה‎ of ‏הדחויה‎ is a ‏השאלה‎ "A, even
though it is followed by a letter with a Dagesh, as in ‏הכתנת בנך היא‎ (Gen.
Vv 37:32), "x ‏השמנה וגו ,הבמחנים‎ (Num. 13:19, 20). In this case, the latter
part of Verse 4 would be phrased as a question, “If one wall is leaning,
does this mean that the fence has already toppled down?” ‏דהה‎ Cf.
‏שי‎ Psalm 36:13.
V. 5. av ‏.אך משאתו‎ We have already noted in our Commentary to
—— ‘Verse 4 that mun preponderantly means “to induce a person to deviate
from the right path,” and quoted Deut. 13:6, 14 as one instance in which
the word is used in this connotation, Other instances where forms of ‏הדיח‎
‎| have such connotations are ‏שפתיה תדיחנו‎ pena (Prov, 7:21), ‏מסאות שוא‎
‏:הדוב )םירה ך, התד ההלתך‎ 9014) The to ‏הווה‎