theta cla — anata rae
foes of Israel- strove to add “an iniquity” (a criminal charge of their own
fabrication) to “their iniquity” (the iniquity of which the people of Israel
had indeed been guilty). They charged Israel with an alleged additional
transgression, and they claimed that, because of this crime, “they (the Jewish
people) would never again be permitted access to God's grace and would
be blotted out from the book of life, never again to be entered therein
together with the names of honest and righteous men!" mn is the infinitive
35, of nn, as in Psalm 8:2, Actually the real sin of which Israel was guilty and
0 for which it was punished by exile was one which many other nations had
committed in a much greater measure than Israel ever had. Israel, however,
received such stern punishment for this same sin because of its unique rela-
tionship with God which required exemplary loyalty and obedience on the
‏שי‎ part of His people (Amos 3:2),
‏וגו" | ,30 ער‎ “am, Iscael says: “They thought that I was abandoned
and rejected by God, barred from His grace forever. They crushed me with
‏ש‎ pain and misery, and then my sad state was interpreted in fessons and ser-
mons as an indication of my depravity and as a sign that God had indeed
cast me off. My present affiction was cited as sure proof that I had indeed
been guilty of the crimes of which they had accused me.” In this manner, they
‏ש‎ sowed the seeds of hatred and contempt in their old and young alike. But
as for me, ‏,עני‎ and ‏,כואב‎ afflicted and miserable though I was, ‏ישועתך אלקי'‎
‏,תשגבנר‎ the help of God, the same God Who had laid His hand so heavily
‏ש‎ upon me, has raised me up on high far above all this misery, It is He that
gave me the strength and courage and the serene confidence with which to
endure my pain. It is He that has endowed me with the fortitude to preserve
my unique character and nature.even in the face of such attacks, and, even
Vv in the midst of all my misery, to live on and develop my personality in accord-
ance with my moral and spiritual destiny. Hence, had their eyes not been
blinded by sensuality and passion, my enemies would surely have been com-
‏ש‎ pelled to perceive my moral and spiritual exaltation in the midst of my
troubles and thus to learn how little truth there was to the rumor that the
008 Lord had forsaken the Jewish people.” No, had their eyes been open, they
would have realized that the continued survival of the Jew and the spiritual
--- and moral integrity which he has preserved despite his harsh fate were
| explicit testimony of God's ald and meamess to the Jew whom they had