the older, unworthy generation would have passed on. See Psalm 106:24—
27. Commentary to Num. 14:23.
bon 15 “labor,” the act of giving birth, ‏יהיל‎ is a Hiphil form. Thus,
‏ב‎ even today, the voice of the Lord, which speaks to us through His Law
still transforms any state of ‏מדבר‎ of deprivation, isolation or danger, into the
“birth-pangs” of a better and truer life. ‘The Lord still allows that “travail”
which began in the wilderness of Kadesh to continue in our own day,
‏ש‎ His voice is the instrument of this continued, life-giving process. The
contempt which the people had for this voice, ‏שמפו בקול ה'‎ xn was the
cause of the punishment which was decreed for Israel at Kadesh. The
ultimate goal of that decree bas ever been, and will ever be, that man
Vv should eventually render completely devoted obedience to this voice. ‏ואתה‎
‏תשוב ושמעת בקול ה"‎ (Deut. 30:1—10).
‘V. 9. ‏.קול ה' יחולל וגו"‎ Even while it wreaks havoc upon forests,
‏שי‎ ‘a thunderstorm also fulfills the constructive function of helping hinds calve
through the fright it has caused them, and of putting man into the mood
for worship in God's temples. So, the voice of the Lord, too, speaking to
us through His Law, brings us renewed life and a new understanding of God
Vv even while it destroys all such forms of life as oppose His will.
‏,כלר‎ All that és the Lord’s, every product of His creation and of
His Sovercignty, serves to proclaim His greatness and to declare His glory.
‏שי‎ All thst is His speaks a3; proclaiming His presence and declaring His
glory in the physical world. (Ci Exod. 16:7. See Commentary ibid.).
‏ישב ל- .ה' למבול וגו" | .10 .ער‎ may be used to denote space, “to sit
‏שי‎ near" an object, as in ‏אשר ישב להוף *מים‎ (Judges 5:17), ‏וישבה לפתח ביתה‎
(Prov. 9:14), or, it may refer to a goal, “‘to sit in expectation” of a person
of event,” as in ‏על דרכים ישבת להם‎ (Jeremiah 3:2), ‏ימום רבים תשבי לי‎
(Hosea 3:3). Despite the disobedience of His people, which caused Him to
—— decree their punishment at Kadesh, the Lord neither changed nor abandoned
| the goals and plans He had originally set for 187901 Instead, He caused