Pledge this in your hearts, upon ‏עַלַ"מִשְכְּבָכָם רמ‎ mas
your beds, and be 51111. [Selah]. — fooee ani aie

8
raising his cyes heavenward. They feel that prayer itself is a form of self-
deception, of weakness, an empty, idle act unworthy of man. He therefore
first addresses himself to men such as they and upbraids them because of their
erroneous views on the value of prayer.

-1 It is ‏,בני איש‎ and pot ‏,בני אדם‎ human beings in general, but ‏;בני איש‎
“every one of you is the son of a ‘man’,” says David, “You are all men of good
breeding, of education, of good repute, men of whom one would expect more
understanding than you have shown.” Or perhaps it is just because they be-
long to the so-called better, upper social strata that they regard prayer to God

Vv as something that may be useful to the uneducated man but certainly far below
their own sophisticated level of intellectual development, ‏.עד מה וגו'‎ How
much longer shall you mock as ridiculous shame that which actually redounds

‎to my honor; 16. my devotion and submission, my humility before God, as‏ ש
‎puts emphasis on the pronoun; “it‏ ז ‎the‏ ,תאהבון ריק ‎expressed in my prayer,‏
תבקשו ‎is you, and not I, who love vanity, and things without content or value;‏
‎you seck something that will prove to be utter deception.* All our ways‏ ,373‘

‎4 and deeds are worthless and ail our hopes are barren if they do not bring us
closer to God, if we do not strive toward the presence of God, the fulfiltment
of His will, the winning of His favor and His help in all these endeavors. “It

‎v is not my ways, it is your ways that are ‏".ריק וכזב‎

‎V. 4. 17, “It is am obvious fact to which you should not close your

‎‘eyes; experience has shown it to be true." ‏הפלה. ,בי הפלה וג'‎ is “to distinguish

‏ונפלינו ,)9:4 ‎(Exod.‏ והפלת ה' ‎pa‏ מקנה ישראל ‎something from another." Thus‏ שי
‎(Exod. 33:16).‏ אגי ועמך

‎‘Ton is perfect, selfless devotion. ‏חסיד לד‎ he who dedicates himself

‎to God without reservations, who consecrates all his endeavors to God and

‎v enteusts his fate entirely to Him. God has always chosen for special guidance
and care those who devote themselves completely to Him, The life and fate

‎--- of such a person has always proven that devotion to God and trust in Him
are no idle delusion, and “therefore I know that God hears my cry, too, when
1 0811 unto Him," David tells us.

‎| V.5. Ofcourse he who prays can hope for God's nearness only if he