nN ‏ב . בב‎
7) Let them not be disappoints ‏קל אנ יה‎ ud way a
ed through me, those that wait oe?
to render it powerless while it was yet alive. It was for this purpose that
they came forward against Israel with trumped-up charges. It was their inten-
tion to force Isracl ‏"אז"‎ in this manner, 10 restore “all that which it had
actually acquired by honest and legal means” as if Israel had obtained such
possessions by “robbery.” In general, the Jews were denied the right to
5 existence, Everything that a Jew possessed, even if he had acquired it by
5 unimpeachably honest means, was viewed, or at least treated, as 1006 which
had been amassed by robbing other nations.
‏.אלקיי וג .6 יר‎ Israel does not intend to whitewash itself before
God, for if it had indeed behaved angelically, it would not now be in exile.
‏שי‎ But it does know that it fs imoceat of that with which the nations falsely
charge it, At any cate, Israel is no worse than its accusers as regards the
perpetration of suck wrongdoing. God knows very well where Isracl has
erred and sinned, for its failings coasist, above all, of iniquities in its retation-
v ship with God, Indeed, it is not said here ‏,אתה ידעת אולתי‎ but ‏.לאולתי‎ This
unusual mode of expressing the thought might denote a pre-awareness on the
part of God, similar to ‏ל-‎ pa, ‏בנת לרעי‎ (Psalm 139:2), ‏יבינו לאחריתם‎ (Deut.
‏שי‎ 32:19); namely, “The eventual consequences of my ‏אולת‎ were known to
Thee in advance; Thou didst know my ‏אולת‎ cven as it first came into being.”
Actually, ‏אולת‎ denotes a vacillating indecision (see Commentary to Genesis
17:19) which has characterized Israel's relationship to God from its his
v torical origins, The Lord put the strength of His revealed Law to its first test
in His endeavor to win for Himself at long last that one nation which con
stantly tended to defection. It was these very ‏אולת‎ that were part of Israel's
‏שי‎ character, and the resulting ‏אשמות‎ 95 a consequence of which Israel forfeited
its freedom and was scattered among the nations as ‏,יזרעאל‎ that made Isracl
₪ fitting instrument to bear God's message to all of sinful, erring mankind
which had to be brought back to God (cf. Commentary to Exod, 34:9,
v Nom. 14:17).
— ‏בוש .אל יבטו וגו" ,7 ל‎ and ‏יבש‎ (see Psalm 6:11) is the humiliation
at disappointment in one’s expectations. ‏הכלם‎ (see Psalm 35:4) is the sense
-- of shame evoked in a person who is reproached for moral failings. ‏קויך‎ (see
| Psalm 25:3) are those who strive toward God with all of their being, and
‘who hope thus to find Him. ‏מבקשיך‎ pre thaca wha eaassh fre tha mneifarte