---- EEE EE “ss
forever; He leads us beyond wna Bae ! ₪ 2 are
mortality. ‏עלימות:‎ aaa ed apr ‏עולם‎

A ese
within a principal wall that is higher, ‏חיל וחומה‎ (Lamentations 2:8). Accord-
ing to Kelim 1:8, the first room set apart within the walls of the Temple
‘Mount to keep away na ‏טמאר‎ which legally could come as far as the
‏עזרת ישראל‎ (See Comm. to Num. 5:2, 3), was called on. If Verse 4
makes reference to this particular delimitation, then this, together with
‏ארמנותיה‎ Lop, would contain a significant thought. ‏שיתו לבכם לחילה‎ would
then be a charge to the people of Israel to take care rigidly to maintain this
delimitation in order thus to express symbolically the duty to protect the

5, Sanctuary agsinst any desecration that might come to it from the city.
At the same time ‏ארמנותיה‎ oD would imply that the everyday Efe taking
place within the city was an integral part of the Sanctuary as well. For
the purpose of the Sanctuary is served only if the Law, as symbolized in and
through the Sanctuary, is made a living reality also in the life of the city.

Vv It would be the same thought that is expressed in the very first instruction
given the Jewish tribes for their encampment round about the Sanctuary in
the desert, 239 ‏מנגד‎ (see Commentary to Num. 2:2).

Vv ‏(פסגר‎ mob, as in Deut. 3:27, is “a height.” ‘Therefore x00, means
“to raise aloft,” “to make eminent.” In Chaldean, 305, like yop, means
“to separate,” “to divide,” and therefore ‏פסגך‎ would mean, “raise aloft

‎will stand out from among the other buildings."‏ עסמו ‎the palaces so that‏ שי
‎my, was, taken together, express a thought as follows: “Lavish‏ וספרר
‎such care and devotion upon the buildings of Jerusalem and Zion that it‏
‎will be obvious even to the superficial glance that this is not merely the city‏ שי
‎and the temple of any one tribe. Let it be clear that Zion is the metropolis‏
‎and the central Sanctuary of an entire nation, of a nation which has created‏

‎them and now maintains them by united, concerted efforts, so that you may‏ ש
‎proclaim to all the generations to come...”‏

‎V. 15. ‘uy ‏".כל זה‎ . . that this God, Whose will and Whose rule
‏שי‎ are manifest in this Sanctuary and in this city, is our God, the God of the
Jewish community, forever.  תומ-לע‎ wan, He will lead us beyond the

‎— mortality which is ordinarily the lot of all peoples and He will make us
immortal among the nations,” ‏מות‎ is in the infinitive mood, Or, if ‏עלמות‎
‎is read as one word, “God leads us on in eternal youth.” The basic sense

‎| of the statement would still be the same. See Psalm 9:1.