‘pleasure in ‏מנחה‎ flat, = fnstead, it 15 in the accusalive, 6. ‏זבה ומנהה‎
‏,לא חפצת‎ “the purpose of the Anu ‏זכח‎ which Thou hast ordained is not
merely that it be ‏,זכח ומנחה‎ but ‏אזנים כרית לי‎ in order to show that Thou
dost expect obedience from me, Every sacrifice should speak directly to
our ears. It should lead us to loyal obedience and a greater sense of duty
toward our God. ‏,עולה וחטאת‎ Thon didst surely never desire us to perform

, the symbolic act of sacrifice while the rest of our lives are filled with levity.”

‎We do not have here the word mun which, even though never used in that‏ ב
‎meaning elsewhere in the Scriptures, could still conceivably denote “ a sin‏
‎which definitely can mean only “sin* or “levity.”‏ חאה ‎offering,” but‏
הטאה ‎The Hebrew word denoting the concept of “sin” has two forms,‏

‎Vv and men, There is only one form, however, for the word signifying the
“sin offering,” and that is ‏.חטאת‎ Even this one fact as given above would

‎be sufficient to refute the spurious arguments of those who have attempted‏ ש
‎to deduce from this verse the existence of so-called “Davidian reforms,”‏
‎claiming that David had thus expressed the opinion that the sacrificial ritual‏
‎was unimportant. Verse 7 is explicitly directed only against the mistaken‏

‎Vv assumption that sacrifice alone, without moral self-improvement of the
personality of him who makes the sacrifice, would be sufficient and pleasing
to the Lord. (See Commentary ta Gen. 4:3, Lev. 10:1).

‎“Now that I have sealized that the purpose of‏ .1% אמרתי וגל .8 .ער שי
‎any sacrificial offering is only to bring home to us anew the demands of our‏
‎duty, and to reawaken within us our devotion to this task, I have spoken‏
‎as follows, ‘I have arrived there,’ that is, at 1256 I have found the only means‏

‎by which we can demonstrate our gratitude for the innumerable mercies‏ ש
‎“There can be no‏ ,במגלת ספר וגו" ‎which God has shown us,” says David.‏
‎doubt for me or for anyone else among us as to what God expects of us in‏

‎return for what He has done for us. It is all clearly and explicitly set down‏ ש
‎just what my duty is.” (Cf.‏ עלי ‎that 5, in the ‘Torah,‏ ,במגלת ספר ‎for us‏

‎———— ‏הרבו עלי מהר ומתך‎ Gen, 34:12) ‏כל מחטורך עלי‎ (Judges 19:20). “Our duties
are clearly set down for us “bo ‏,במגלת‎ not in a ‏ספר‎ which is accessible
‏קומס‎ to scholars and found only in libraries, but ‏במגלת ספר‎ in a ‘scroll of

‎| a book’ that is popular and available to all.”