of the Lord, namely ‏לשמע בקול תודה‎ and ‏.לספר כל נפלאותיך‎ One purpose of

communal worship is to acknowledge our debt to God in communion with

5, others. This is the literal meaning of tn. The word ‏,לשמע‎ which pre-

- supposes the presence of others, shows that what is meant here is an

acknowledgement together with other worshippers, of our debt of gratitude

to the Lord. The other purpose of such worship is ‏לספר כל נפלאותיך‎ to

reinforce our awareness of God by retelling the mighty acts in which Ho

‎reveals Himself. Acknowledgement and awareness—these are the plants‏ שי
‎to be nurtured in the House of the Lord.‏

‎(Verse 5),‏ שנאתי קהל מרעים ‎In contrast to‏ .ה' אהכתי וגו 8 ‎Vv.‏

‎David says here, “I love to sojourn ia Thy House, and to dwell therein.”

‎v Tivo is the space ‏(ם)‎ of what is temporal (ny). See Commentary to Deut.

‎33:27. “I love to dwell in Thy House, for in this fashion I give expression

‎to the thought that it is there, with Thee, that my earthly life has its

‎foundations, and that I may enter the place where Thy glory dwells with‏ שי

‎us on earth.”

‎V.9, 10, "wi ‏.אל תאסף‎ “Here 1 renew my resolution so to live that

‎my soul shall not perish in sensual levity nor shall my 116 be absorbed by‏ ש

‎crime against my fellow men. I bereby resolve so to live that the Lord

‎will not put an end to the future of my soul and of my life in the company

‎of ‏חטאים‎ and ‏;אנשי דמים‎ that He will not allow me to suffer a fate such as

‎Vv they have prepated for themselves by their acts and theic way of life.” In

‏אנשי דמים ‎(Prov. 29:10), where‏ אנשי דמים ישנאו תם וישרים יבקשו ‎wo‏

‎simply denotes the opposite of ‏,ישרים‎ and in ‏אטם אזנר משמל דמים‎ (Isaiah

‏דמים ‎nya (Micah 7:2), the context shows that‏ לדמים יארבו ‎and‏ ,)33:15 ש

‎does not necessarily always mean actual murder and manslaughter, but may

‎en denote any crime that jeopardizes or destroys the life or welfare of another

‎person. The words mnt ‏אנשי‎ have the same meaning here, in Verse 9 of

‎—_ Psalm 26. Verse 10 gives us a more detailed description of the ‏חטאים‎ and

‎| the ‏-אנשר דמים‎ Because they are ‏,חטאים‎ not ‏,כודיהם‎ and because they are