+ ‏שו ובור‎ 9 rire eee ‏ןו‎ 4%
nature of God's sovereignty is also one and unalterable: it is ‘Ton, mercy.”
‘This merey is pure loving-kindness even if it bears the character of wrath
and punishment. It is devoted to the welfare of His creatures and renders to
5 every person that which is commensurate with his acts and thus conducive to
- his tue welfare. Because each man behaves differently from his brother,
and conduct may vary at different times even in one and the same person,
the rule of God may seem inconstant, even though in fact it is unalterable.
For whatever the nature of its manifestation, its immutable aim is always the
‏שי‎ same; namely to benefit man and to advance bim steadily in his training for
a better way of life. Whatever outward form the demonstration of His
mercy may take, it is still always the same loving-kindness that grants and
witholds, wounds but heals again, and, by inflicting denial and suffering
Vv ‘on man, helps him attain such spiritual and moral fortitude which no man
could gain were he surrounded constantly by unalloyed happiness. Divine
mercy 2s demonstrated by the suffering decreed for man—this phase of
‏שי‎ God's rule is the one which David experienced at the time he set down this
psalm, and it is this experience which David now desires to make known to
all of his people. Therefore he refers to God here by the ‏אדנות‎ ny, the
appellation which, as we have repeatedly pointed out, expresses our aware
v ness that we are bound to the service of God in every phase of our lives.
v PSALM LXIII
‏.בהיותו בסדבר יהודה .1 .ל‎ This psalm stems from an event in the
carly days of David's flight from Saul, He had fled abroad to the king of
v Mozb and entrusted his parents to the latter's care. Gad, the prophet,
however, instructed him not to remain abroad but to dwell in the midst of
—_ the Iand of Judah. David obeyed this behest and dwelt in the forest of
— Chereth. (I Sam. 22:5). There, an exiled refugee in the land of the Jews,
isolated, parted from his family, his nation, his home, and alone before His
| God in the desolate wildemess he speaks as follows: