YY ₪0 /" - - ‏ו תת‎
bow down to the place of Thy .

A Sanctuary in the fear of Thee. ENT?
unbridted sensuality ‏;לא אל חפץ רשע אתה‎ God shall not allow the wicked a
permanent place—or even temporary sojourn, in this world. ‏:לא יגורך רע‎
That evil which He does permit to continue without putting an end to it
actuatly stands in the service of that great good which is the object of His
world order, Boasters, however proud and tyrannical they may be, cannot
stand up before the eyes of God ‏.לא יתיצבו הוללים לנגד עיניך‎ Let men hail and

35, admire successful acts of violence, but God's wrath will surely strike the
- evildoer, whatever his position in human society, ‏.שנאת כל פועלי און‎ The
Lord is a God of righteousness and truth; hypocrisy and deceit will come to
naught before His sovereignty. Not only docs God detest murder; He also
despises deceit. 'n ayn? ‏.תאבד דברי כזב איש דמים ומרמה‎ Based on these motives,

‎then, I picture the “morning” for myself, and confidently await that day‏ ש
‎and ape, shall have van-‏ כזב ,און ‎and‏ הוללות ,רע ‎and‏ רשע ‎when the night of‏
‎ished from the earth,‏

‎“the‏ ;ו ‎The emphasis is placed on the conjunction‏ .איש דמים ‎FOV‏ ש
‎Lord detests the man of murder and deceit". He does not detest only the‏
‎murderer, who is held in contempt by buman society as well, but He also‏
‎despises the crafty deceiver. For deceit is as hateful to God as murder. Thus‏

‎(Prov.1:7). To scom moral obligations is just as much‏ חכמה ומוסר אוילים בזר ש
‎folly as it is to scorn wisdom, and fools scorn both wisdom and moral‏
‎teachings.‏

‎Vv V. 8 "at un, “But as for me,” says David, “I do not feel com-
pelled to desist from evil merely because my knowledge of the purposes of
God’s Sovereignty makes me aware that there is no future for evil or wicked

‎men. I know that wickedness cannot endure forever, even though in these‏ שי
‎dark days evil seems to triumph and I myself must suffer at the hands of‏
,איש דמים ומרמה ‎deceitful men, particularly at the hands of Achitophel, the‏
‎who is so adept at deceit that his skill may well be called murderous. But,‏

‎Vv over and beyond this, I know that I must desist from wickedness simply
because of ‏חסדך‎ 3173. I, as a son of the Jewish people, am privileged to

‎--- partake of a great gift given us by a gracious God. In the midst of this era
of gloom, when most of mankind has turned away from God, He has erected
for us a ‘house’ which He calls His ‘house’. By means of this sanctuary He

‎| teaches us how we can so fashion our lives on earth that His presence will