them, He leads them into that path which is in accordance with His will by
means of the experiences which He has them undergo in this 6.
V. 10. "wr mime ‏.כל‎ Because even ‏המשפט‎ the judgments of the
5 Lord serve solely to bring true happiness to mankind, all the ‏ארחות ה'‎ ways
5 of God's rule among men, (sco Commentary to Verse 4) are ‏ואמת‎ ‘Ton.
‘They are not independent. His von is also nox, and His nox is ‏חסד‎ at the
same time. When He favors men with loving kindness, He does so only to
such an extent and in such a manner that man’s spiritual and moral welfare,
‏ש‎ his true happiness, will not be jeopardized. When the Lord metes out to
maa the “truth” of his life, when He ordains for him a fate which is in
accordance with the life he has ted, it is still a sign of God’s “love,” for it
leads man to the proper evaluation of his way of life. See Comm. to
‏ש‎ Gen, 47:29,
‏,לנצרי וגו"‎ All the ways of God, even the harshest, bitterest blows
of fate, are nothing but ‏ואמת‎ ‘Ton to the ‏,נצרי בריתר‎ who understand that
‏ועדתיר שי‎ inna are their most precious 10850055 for which, once they are
forfeited, there is no substitute, ‏כריתו‎ is the constant “walking with the
Lord,” His nearness which can be retained only through a life of pure
morality, ‏עדתיר‎ denotes the understanding which is to be derived by man
v from and through God's “testimonies.” Unlike the word ‏,שמר‎ which is
preponderantly used to denote protection from danger from without, 723
connotes inner preservation, care taken lest 2 precious object perish or be
‏שי‎ Jost to us through our own fault. (See Commentary to Deut. 32:10).
‏שר‎ 11. "at ‏.למען‎ “Since Thy Name is ‏,ה'‎ showing that Thou art ready
at all times to grant us a better future and renewed life, I may confidently
‏ש‎ hope for the favor of ‘Thy wondrous love. My iniquity, my P9 ‘aberration
into crookedness’ has been so great and far-reaching in its consequences
008 that, because of it, I have lost all strength to raise myself by means of my
own resources. Thus I should surely be lost if Thou wert not to resurrect
-- me with Thy ‏מדה‎ of ‏ה'‎ which manifests itself in all its true glorious might
| especially for a maa forforn such as I.” ‏,טלח‎ related to ‏,שלח‎ nbs is literally
“granting to someone the ability to prow** *~ * hatter aveee ‏התוול‎ where