‘OTe, as a representative in the service of God on earth but who, instead, in

false self-aggrandizement, sets himself up against God and the world. It is

the man of violence as described in Verse 3 by the term ‏.אויב ומתנקם‎ The

‘word ‏אדם‎ denotes the pure man (see Comm. to Gen, 1:26), the representative

of God on earth whose task it is to bring to realization the moral purposes for

which God has called the physical world into being, ‏תזכרה\‎ “ot, related 0

5 “20, ‏,סכר‎ “to store in one’s memory”, as opposed to ‏,שכה‎ “to forget”, When

0 used with reference to God in His relationship to man, ‏זכר‎ means, not to leave

someone to his fate but to take an interest once more in his deliverance.

זכרני נא החקני נא ;)88:6 ‎(Ps.‏ לא זכרתם עוד ;(136:23 ‎(Ps,‏ שבשפלנו זכר לגר

)10085 16:28); ‏והארץ אזכר‎ (Lev, 26:42); ‏ה' את גח‎ tom (Gen. 8:1) and

‎see Comm. to Gen. 12:1 and Chap. 21:1, is also used with‏ ,פקד ‎elsewhere.‏ שי

‎reference to the proper shaping of the fortunes of a person through God, but

‎carries the definite connotation of installing someone into office, to appoint

‎him for the performance of a task. ‏ויפקדהו על ביתו‎ (Gen. 39:4); ‏ויפקדהו שר‎

‎Vv ‏הטבחים‎ (ibid, 40:4); ‏יפקוד ה' אלקי הרוחות‎ (Num. 27:16) and elsewhere,

‎“When I behold Thy heavens, the uniform work of Thy forming fingers, the

‎moon and the stars that Thou hast established in Thy paths; who, then, is

‎man, degenerate, violent, that Thou shouldst remember him, and the son‏ שי
‎of pure mankind, that Thou appointest him as Thy representative?”‏

‎All the pride and stubbornness of the type of man referred to as

‎“Enosh” must wither away into oblivion, before the message coming down‏ ש

‎from the stars into the hearts of man, proclaiming God as the creator and

‎originator, regulator and lawgiver. For what hope, what claim to hope can

‎remain to him when he measures his own infinitesimal smallness against the

‎Vv vastness of the galaxies? Even these great shining worlds bow low to God

‎as their creator and as their master Who has decreed and fixed their orbits,

‎Who—as we express it when we [00% upon the New Moon—“With His word

‎created the heavens and with the breath of His mouth all their host, Who‏ פמ שי

‎appointed a law and a time for each one, so that none may shirk His mandate,

‎en that they may joyously and happily shine forth to fulfill the will of their

‎creator.” What hope, what claim to hope, remains to the “Enosh”, then, if,

‎7-7-- setting himself up against the Lord, Who is also bis creator and master, be

‎will live and work in God's world only as a “vengeful foe zealously guarding

‎his own interests” instead of complctine bie 5! an aorth 55 ₪ sreohtre nf