for me. Yea, itis His tabernacle, the abode of His presenees it encompasses
Hiis presence even as it surrounds my own person. He is with me, and
- Tam safe with Him.” Cf. Psalm 76:3, ‏יסתירני בסתר אהלר‎ “He keeps me from
being found in the covert of His tent. Just as He knows how to keep from
the view of the profane those sacred things entrusted to His tabernacle,
and just as the protective safeguard of Cherubim in the tabernacte symbolizes
His promise to send His angels to protect every loyal som of this sanctuary,
v ‏לך וגל"‎ mp ‏בי מלאכיו‎ so He accepts me into this circle far removed from
every hostile eye. He keeps me from being found by my pursuers.
‏ירוממני‎ 7x3 Indeed, because every aspect of my existence looks up to
‏ש‎ God, 1 am so exalted that no enemy can harm me.”

V.6, ‘aan. “Even now, whea 1 am sill surrounded by enemies,
my head is 164 high above them. ‘This awareness of God's presence,
‏ש‎ which no one can take from me, makes me feel sure that victory will be
mine in the end, Therefore, even while danger still lurks round aboot me,
1 would be ready to bring joyous meal offerings ‏(זבהים)‎ (see Commentary
to Gen, 46:1) of profound homage to the Lord ‏תרועק)‎ see Commentary to
‏ש‎ Num, 23:21) and to sing inspired songs in praise of the manifestation of
His might” The words ‏תרועה‎ and ‏התרועע‎ are frequently used in the
Scriptures to express foud, exultant joy, and, in particular, rejoicing in
‏ש‎ victory (Psalm 60:10, 65:14, 108:10, Job 8:21 and elsewhere). “Therefore
my physical situation, however precarious it may seem, holds no terrors
for me. Siace this is so, any request or prayer which I may address to the
Lord will concern the attainment of my spiritual goal which is dependent
v upon my attaining moral perfection; namely, that 1 might be found worthy
of the presence of the Lord and retain it forever.” The prayers that follow

all deaf with this ukimate goal and with the sole path that will lead to it.
— Vv. 7. “ui ‏.שמע‎ The accent which joins the words ‏קולי‎ and ‏,אקרא‎
‎| is peculiar. It seems to be intended to express the contrast of this plea to