.----------- ‏אלתו‎ 1
4. vows and yet it is all deceit and ‏ו 6% עו‎
malice, under his tongue there is ‏ן:‎ ape the? nop
mischief and violence.
labor is called mova ‏חיל‎ (Psalm 48:7). ‏וגו‎ ep, a Hiphil form, means:
“His ways always lead to creation, to the coming of that which was planned,
they lead to the goal”. ‏,כתיב דרכו ,קרי דרכיו‎ all his ways are stamped with one
characteristic and are based upon one premise; namely, ‏אלקי"‎ TX. He thinks
5 that he will always reach his goal because he has naught to fear. The fact
5 that there might be such a thing as ‏משפטי ה'‎ is so far beyond him, or else he
feels that such justice is so far away that it can mean so little to the world
and to earthly affairs that it does not even come 1733, into his ken. Only
very rarely will the word 721 be used to denote the thought of “contrary” or
‏ש‎ “opposition”. It is employed almost exclusively to denote the thought of an
“opposite” position in space, ‏בהם‎ wm ‏.כל צורריו‎ mp, “to puff”, used to
describe the breathy, slow, cautious speech of the hypocrite, ‏יפיח כזבים עד שקר‎
(Prov. 6:19, 14:5). ‏,יפוח אמונ יגיד צדק ועד שקרים מרמה.‎ “He pulls loyalty,
‏ש‎ speaks of justice and is a deceitful, false witness” (ibid. 12:27). This is
true here also. He himself does not think of God and it is far from him to
take into account God's judgment and His justice when he lays his plans.
‏שי‎ Naturally, though, it would be most unpleasant for him if the rest of the
world, too, were to think as he does, because then all the others would come
to be as inconsiderate of him as he himself now is of them. It is much more
convenient for him to have all those who stand in his way remain God-
v fearing, honest and timidly scrupulous. Therefore he takes care not to utter
aloud his opinions regarding God and His judgment but he will rather “puff
at” these judgments; 1.6. he will breathe his supposed sentiments of loyalty
‏שי‎ together with his opponents who stand in the way of his intentions. He will
speak very honorably and cautiously of God's judgment when he is among
his adversaries. Cf. ‏יפיחו קריה‎ (Prov. 29:8}.
V. 6. ‏,לדר ודר אשר לא ברע .אמר וגן' לדר וגו"‎ Ie shall be thus forever;
Vv even when times will be bad and filled with misfortune, he still shall not suffer
adversity. He 15 so clever, and he has scraped together enough material
security to prepare him for whatever may come,
— V. 7. ‏.אלה פיהו גג"‎ The word ‏אלה‎ is explicitly “to swear upon God”
since it is quite obviously formed from the word “God”, See Comm. to
Genesis, 21:23. His mouth is filled with oaths “unon God”. and vet it is all