person that is present. git, plural, is the “richly cushioned couch.”
‏אשמרות‎ is most probably used here to denote the parts of the night that
are spent on the watch. As also in ‏שסודות עיני‎ nix (Psalm 77:5). “In
3S, former days,” David says to God, "1 remembered Thee while I rested upon
a soft and luxuriaat couch, recalling how Thou hast been near us in the
past. Now, during my nightly vigil Iying upon socks and sand in the midst
of the desert, with not even a bare couch on which to recline, 1 meditate
‏ש‎ upon Thy nearness which Thou dost show me even at this very hour,
‏.בר וגרל‎ For Thou hast become my help; without Thy aid I would be no
more; therefore, I feel safe, screne and joyous beneath the shadow of Thy
wings.”

4 ‏ער‎ 9. "a1 ‏.דבקה‎ Not 73, for that would have seemed to David too
audacious, but ‏,אחריך‎ “my soul cleaves fast to the endeavor to follow Thee.
‘Whatever life may bring, I shall not allow anything to cause me to waver
‏ש‎ in this my striving to follow God, and 1 sense that Thy right band is

holding me fast.”
‏גר .10 יר‎ nem, “Even though forsaken by men,” says David,
‏שי‎ “I rejoice in the serene, full vigor of life, and in God Who, perhaps, is
even nearer to me now than before, In the meantime, those who have
brought me to this state of desolation believe that they have delivered me
up to destruction. But, even though they seemed to have triumphed for
Vv the moment, they will go down ‏תחתיות הארץ ".בתהתיות הארץ‎ need not
necessarily indicate a depth in space. In Psalm 139:15 the same expression
is used to indicate the most primitive stage in the development of the
‏ש‎ physical life of a human embryo, still unborn, ‏.רקמתי בתחתיות הארץ‎ There-
fore it is most likely that, as employed here, it would mean the lowest level

— of life on earth, either socially or morally.

‎in Verse 10, is the object of ima. The‏ ,נפשי ,יגירהו ‎"a1‏ .11 ער
‎is “to Jet something flaw forth to be spent,” or “to shed."‏ נגר ‎form of‏ הפעיל.
‎(Micah 1:4), “They desire to shed my blood.”‏ מים מגרים במורד ‎‘Thus we read‏ |