‎This was the thought that the‏ .ה' ימלך לעולם ועד ,טושל וגר .7 .ער
‎nation, thus delivered, took with it into the future. (Exodus 15:10). He‏
‎shall thus rule eternally in His power that is victorious over all else, Like- *‏ -
‎wise forever will His eyes look around among the nations. The national‏
‎and military might of Egypt, drowned in the watery grave, calls out a warning‏
‎to all future generations, “Let not Pharao-like spite, blaspheming God, dare‏
‎Conceit, the overestimation‏ .אל ירימו למור ‎however, is‏ ,כתיב ‎The‏ "!קט ‎tise‏ שי
‎of one’s limited powers, has its root above all in the overrating of the ma-‏
‎terial means and power at one’s disposal, and of the institutions and works‏
‎created by such means. Let them all look back upon the empire of the‏
‎Vv Pharaos, the mightiest, largest and most civilized of its day, and Ict them‏
‎they should not “think highly”‏ ,אל ירימו למו ‎Jearn that, in contrast to God,‏
‎of anything they call their own and believe to be the pillar of thelr might‏
‎Px (Prov. 21:30). The greatest‏ הכמה ‎PR‏ תבונה ואין עצה נגד ה' ‎Vv and grandeur,‏
‎power is as nothing if it turns against God, but even the most insignificant‏
‎of creatures can become mighty indeed if only God is at its side,‏
‎But now, and throughout all the days of exile, the‏ ,ברכו ‎"a1‏ .8 ער . שי
‎Lord reveals His rule in Israel's history before the eyes of the nations in‏
‎a much greater degree than ever before. He demonstrates. His might in a‏
‎manner that is much more convincing to roan than any past show of His‏
‎Vv strength has been, More than ever before, the overt manifestation of His‏
‎mex, the history of the‏ מצרים ‎power is of widespread and lasting impact. The‏
‎founding of Israel at a nation shows us that God in His awesome Majesty‏
‎has wrought obvious miracles, and this His wondrous might poses a threat‏ ש
‎to all the forces of impudent arrogance. But it is the historical miracle of‏
‎Israel's preservation amidst the dark centuries of exile that most force-‏ ₪
‎fully and convincingly demonstrates to every thinking man that God is‏ >
‎indeed very much present in the course of man’s history. Thus Iseael calts‏
‎upon the very nations through whose crrors it has bad to suffer, urging them‏ |