Of deruan with souc rejorcing.
PSALM XLVIT
‏שר‎ 1. According to Psalm 46, the recognition of God is to be
spread among the nations of the world by means of grievous and stormy
5, upheavals. At the same time the Lord bas peacefully advanced this goal
by His creation of the nation of Israel. Psalm 47 proclaims how this historic
phenomenon of Israel inspires all the other nations to do homage to God
and how Israel has already marked the beginning of the future kingdom
of God among the nations.

v ‏תק כף .כל העמים וגו" .2 .ער‎ is ordinarily employed in the same
sense as our “bandclasp.” This gesture consists of putting our hand, the
instrument we use for action or for grasping a possession, ‏יד‎ or ‏,כף‎ into

‎person. In this manner we cede to‏ תסנוסמה ‎of‏ כף ‎the “grasping hand,”‏ ש
‎him a right or claim upon our acts or our possessions, and therefore the‏
‎handclasp implies the incurring of an obligation, the giving of a promise.‏
‎Only in one instance in the Scriptures does it occur a3 an expression af joy,‏

‎Vv meaning “to clap hands,” namely, ‏מחא כף‎ (Nachum 3:19), This would
denote a clasping of our own hands, a gesture of rejoicing upon having
attained at Jong last the fulfillment of some long yeamed-for wish. If we

‎apply the more common interpretation of “clasping hands” in this psalm,‏ שי
‎then Verse 2 would be a call sent forth by Israel to the other nations to clasp‏
‎its hand; that is, to enter into an alliance with Israel, to promise Israel their‏
‎as an 6+-‏ תקערכף ‎friendship. If, on the other hand, wo should interpret‏

‎4 Pression of joy, Verse 2 would be a call from Israel to the other nations
to give loud expression to their joy at having found at long last, in the
historic phenomenon of Israel, the ideal for which they have searched in

‎Vv vain upon alien paths.

‎the powerful sound, when used with reference‏ ,תרועה. .הריעו לאלקי' וגל

‎—— to God, also denotes the tribute to God paid by the human spirit deeply
moved by the thought of His overwhelming greatness, (See Commentary

‎to Num, 23:21). ‏הריע‎ is the calling forth of such emotion, This mood of

‎| deep solemnity should be coupled also with ‏בקול רנה‎ loud rejoicing, ‘This ix