the earth, sing to spread this Oo ‏כּיל:‎
‎knowledge far and wide, ‏ספיל‎ ₪

2S, cession of the land of the Canaanites to Israel, an act of God in which He
revealed Himself as the ruler over the destinies of nations, as a Power
Whose aid is far more effective and victorious than any human physical
greatness and might.

‎In Verses 3—S we are given the motive which‏ .עלה וגל .6 ‎V.‏ ש
‎inspired the call that went out to the nations (Verse 2) to “call forth” the‏
".הריער' ‎follows the call of‏ עלה אלקי' בתרועה ‎tribute of Teruah to God.‏
‎Once the nations have obeyed this summons, once the minds of the nations‏

‎Vv shall have come to know that God is ‏,עליון נורא‎ and God shall thus have
received the homage due to His majesty, then He shall also reveal Himself
to the nations as ‏,הי‎ as He lovingly leads men and nations on to their

‎with‏ ,בקול שופר ‎and‏ ,תקיעה ‎shalt be changed to‏ תרועה ‎salvation. Then the‏ שי
‎the unbroken blast of the Shofar, the Lord, like a loving father, will call‏
‎Psalm 32, Comm. to Leviticus 23:24),‏ חורב ‎mankind unto Himself. (See‏

‎‘V. 7, 8 "a1 wnt, ‏זמר‎ is not the chanted word, but the melody,

‎v the tune, the joyous singing of the human soul, (See Commentary to Gen.
43:11). Again and again we read here the call to the nations to give voice
in joyous song to their newly-won understanding of God in the light of

‎Jewish truth. For, as we have pointed out in our Commentary to Verse 2,‏ שי
‎Jodaism has given the nations a concept of God that is entirely new to‏
‎thent. Contrary to what they bad previously thought, trembling fear and the‏
‎stunting of life have no place in the Jewish covenant with God. Entrance‏

‎Vv into it does not mean that one must henceforth renounce all joy of living.
No, on the contrary, it is only once he has entered into this covenant that
the human being can become truly glad of himself, of his purpose in life

‎——— and of the fulfillment of his life's task. It is only through his covenant with
the Lord that man will gain such blissful awareness in the face of which all
sadness, grief and despair will lose its sting even on earth.