ness of God’s nearness even amidst humble circumstances. Verses 21-26
speak of the bliss inherent in selflessness. Verses 27—29 apply the preceding
to moral conduct, and finally, in Verses 30—40 we have a description of
the visible characteristics of the righteous man as opposed to those who
5 neglect their duty,
7 For the explanation of the simple superscription of ‏,לדוד‎ as well as
‘of the alphabetical sequence of the verses, sce Commentary to Chapter 25:1.
¥. 1. ‏אל תתחר‎ does not mean “do not be angry at the ways of
the wicked,” “do not be angry at the wicked”—for it is not said here
Vv ‏אפך במרפים‎ “Wit ‏.אל‎ It means, rather, “do not fret,” "40 not become agitated
Because of the good fortune that the wicked enjoy.” There is a statement
in Berachoth 7b, saying, "nya ‏מותר להתגרות ברשעים‎ “It is indeed permitted
‏ש‎ to fight against the Iawless, even at the present time. For it is said in
Prov, 28:4 ba man? ‏עחבי תורה יהללו רשע שומרי תורת‎ ‘only those who them-
selves forsake the Law will praise the Jawless; those that keep the Law will
fight against them,’ ‏אדם לומר‎ Jen? om, but if someone should whisper in
Vv your car ‏והא כתיב אל תתחך במרעים וגו'‎ ‘Ts it not written ‏'?אל תתהר וגו"‎ then
tell him ‏מי שלכו נוקפו אומר כן‎ ‘He whose own heart flutters because of his
‘own transgressions will interpret it in this manner.’ The true meaning of the
‏שי‎ thought is ‏,אל תתחר במרעים להיות כמרעים ואל תקנא בעושי עולה להיות כעשי עולה‎
‘Do not fret at the good fortune of the wicked and do not envy them, lest
you will come to desire to walk in their ways’.”
‏אל תתחר.‎ is the Hithpael form of mn, “Do not let the good fortune
‏ש‎ of the lawless trouble you, lest you fail to see the workings of God’s justice
in their prosperity, Indeed ‏,אל תקנא בעשי עולה‎ do mot even envy the good
fortune of those who misuse the position which fortune has helped them
‏שי‎ attain, in order to do violence.” ‏קול‎ is a misuse of power, just as ‏א‎
‎denotes the misuse of tix “strength.”
— ‏חציר ,13 כחציר וגו' | .2 .ער‎ and ‏דשא‎ are separated by the accent marks
from the words that follow, “If you see them be like the grass, cropping
--- up as easily and effortlessly as grass which sprouts wherever there is even
| only one handful of soil, then remember—they wilt soon be cut down."