to ‏ספת‎ to spiritual strength “px ‏,לפני‎ to walk in ‘hfe and light’ before
God's countenance. Even when faced with the sternest decrees of God
5 that seem to carry ‘death and night’ in thele wake, even in the darkest days
5 of my life I shall bebold the hand of God, and ‏להתהלך באור החיים‎ will ty
to conduct myself before Him ‘with undiminished vigor, clear of mind and
spicit’.””

‎PSALM LVII‏ ש
‎Is part of the superscription of this‏ אל תסחת ‎V. 1. The phrase‏
‎psalm as well 2s of Psalms 58, 59 and 75. All these four chapters of‏
‎the Book of 90105 deal with conditions that portend general ruin and‏ ש
‎corruption unless God would intervene and put a stop to them, In Psalms‏
‎and 75 these thoughts come to David's mind as he beholds the sad state‏ 58
‎of affairs that prevails in the world in general. In Psalms 57 and 59, on‏ שי
‎the other hand, David is led to utter this call because of what he has ex-‏
‎(see Psalm 16:1). David resolves never‏ מכתם ‎perienced in his own life,‏
‎to forget the emotions that caused him to voice this cry, David's father-‏
‎v inJaw had gone forth with three thousand horsemen in order to search for‏
‎David in the rocky caves of the desert of En-Gedi, Saul had come so‏
‎close to the place where David was encamped that he had already entered‏
‎the cave deep within which David lay in hiding with his men, But instead‏ שי
‎of acceding to the demands of his men who urged David to kil! Saul, David‏
‎contended himself with cutting off a comer from Saul's garment in order‏
‎thus to prove to the king how unjustified the latter was in hating and‏
‎pursuing him. This moment forcibly brought to David's attention not only‏ ש
‎the ruin threatening his own person, but also the moral corruption of his‏
‎refers to “physical‏ אל תשחת ‎enemies who had caused him this peril. The call‏

‎— destruction” as well as “moral corruption.”
| V. 2, ‏וג תנני וגר‎ um. David needs both manifestations of Divine
favor (see Psalm 56, Verse 14.—Ed.), in nrter tn witherand tha arent test