A Sse
without the aid of others. Everyone is “needy” in some respect, and there~
fore ‏ה'‎ *1y. But mere need in itself does not constitute a legal claim, ‏וענייך‎
‏,במשפט‎ every man must be thoroughly imbued with this axiom of God’s law-
ful order, so that no one may be led to lay violent hands upon the property
‘or wealth of his fellowman, or to force its cession, regardless of how sorely
he who lacks it may need it or of what Little use it may be to its rightful
owner.

The inviolable sanctity of right is the first, absolutely essential pre-
requisite of the state founded upon the Law of God. Therefore, we have
2S, ‏ידין עמך בצדק וענייך במשפט‎ before anything else.
V. 3.  הקדצב ‏.ישא וגו' שלום וגו'‎ However, in addition to ‏,צדק‎ we
have been given another task, which has also been sanctified by God Himself,
and that is apts. ‏עדקה‎ is the factor which will finally complete the state

‎In such a‏ .שלום ‎founded upon God's Law so that it will form one entity of‏ שי
‎society, every citizen will devote his energies voluntarily to supply the needs‏
‎of his fellow. And, impelled by his conscientious sense of duty toward God,‏
‎he will render even such services to his brother for which the latter may‏

‎Vv have no legal claim as such (see Commentary to Genesis 15:6, Deut. 15:8).
‏צדקה‎ is chatity as far as its recipient is concerned; but in the eyes of God
it is po more than the performance of one’s duty. In non-Jewish ideologies,

‎v right and duty complement one another. There must be a right for every
duty. In the Jewish state, however, which is fouaded upon the Law of God,
the concept of duty reaches far beyond the scope of the ideal of right. Right
is confronted by the concept of debt, “indebtedness” ain, ‏,הובה‎ APT, ‏-אסם‎

‎Vv ever, is a mn, a duty based upon Divine commandment, the neglect of which
is no less a sin against God even though he to whom we have denied the
‏צדקה‎ has no legal right to expect such consideration from us. Verse 3 reads

‏ישאר ‎The construction of the sentence is‏ .ישאר הרים שלום לעם וגבעות בצדקה ש
‎are both the subjects, and‏ הרים וגבפות .הרים שלום לעם וגבפות ישאו שלום לעם
‎is the attributive qualification of‏ בצדקה ‎is the predicate of both;‏ ישאו שלום לפ
‎the predicate, Mountains and hills bring peace and prosperity to the people,‏

‎Vv not directly in themselves, but ‏,בצדקה‎ through the sense of duty and justice

‎en which shall then imbue all men. The sense of ‏צדקה‎ will teach us all to employ
the gifts that nature has lavished upon us not only for our own advantage

‎7-- but also for the welfare of our fellow men, in the brotherly love that God
| has enjoined, ‏צדק‎ and wown are the safeguards that guarantee every person

‎his own richtful possessions. ‏צדקה‎ on the thee hand nentante the rinhte af