man (David) to make the decision to erect a House of God felt he would
do so only if the Lord would prove to him that he is indeed worthy of the
Divine presence by granting him the promised aid and protection ‏יהיה‎ DX
‏יהיה. בית‎ A ‏הזאת‎ TART ‏אלקים עמדי ושמרני וגו' וגתן וגו' ושבתי וגו' זהיה‎
‏אלקים וכל וגו"‎ (see Commentary to Gen. 28:12—22). If we consider all
the above, we can readily understand the thought which led David to decide
to build a permanent sanctuary unto the Lord. David was imbued with the
- sense of the immediate neamess, guidance and direction of God which he
had experienced throughout all the years of his agitated life. Thus David
came to designate this psalm, in which be describes his experiences and in
which he reaffirms his trust in God, to be the anthem to be sung in honor
‘of the dedication of the “House.” The thoughts expressed in Psalm 30
Vv are the very ones that serve as cornerstones, as it were, for alll ovr houses of
God. The purpose of our houses of worship shall always be ever to keep
these thoughts before us, so that we may cherish them in our hearts and
‏ש‎ thereby derive streagth and guidance for all our endeavors.
‏הנכה .חנכת הבית לדור‎ (see Commentary to Gen. 14:14 and Num.
74:10.) Actually it was Solomon, the son of David, who carried out the
operation of building the Termple. However, in so doing, Solomon served
Vv only as the executor of the arrangements made and set by David. It was
David who had impasted to his son specific instructions for both the con-
struction and the furnishing of the Temple and it was David, too, who had
‏שי‎ Ieft to Solomon all the means and materials necessary for this work. (Sec
Sam. II, 7, Chron. 1, 22:28, 29).
‏זגו" .2 יש‎ qunnm, This is the only place in the Scriptures where
the root ‏דלה‎ is employed in this manner. ‏דלה‎ is “to draw up," from which
v we derive ‏,דלי‎ “a pail,” phonetically related to ‏(תלה‎ “to allow to be sus-
pended.” This means to lift up an object from the depths toward oneself
and to keep that object hanging suspended over that depth. ‘That which
v ‘was thus drawn up from below has its support somewhere above, and were
it not for this support which keeps it suspended, it would sink back into
--- the depth below. In view of the foregoing, we could hardly find another
expression like ‏דליתני‎ which in one single word so accurately describes the
uniqueness of the position of David, of Israel, and of any person who relies
| completely and exclusively upon Divine guidance and direction. All the