NEE ‏צר 7 וה‎ ELL A OR MG ‏ו‎ 6
service of God, shall come to prevail on earth—a goal which (as indicated in
the title verse) will be attained only after many fateful periods of trial, of
“wine pressings”, shall have been overcome.

5

PSALM IX

למנצח ‎In Chapters 4, 5, 6 and 8, the word‏ .למנצח על מות לבן .1 יר

is connected with the ensuing words by the accent mark. Thus, in Psalm 8

‎which can be over-‏ גתית ‎but the‏ ,על ‎the subject of the contents is not rnin‏ שי
‎is definitely‏ למנצה ‎come by Divine inspiration. In Psalm 9, however, the word‏

‎separated from ‏על‎ by means of the tipcha, and ‏על-מות לבן‎ designates the

‎content of the psalm, Rashi already observed that ‏מות לכן‎ could not mean

‎and not‏ הבך ‎“death” or “the death of the son”. If it did, the word would be‏ ש
‎moreover, there is nothing in this psalm that might indicate such a‏ נלבך

‎“death”, Besides, it is quite evident that this psalm speaks of a nation rather

‎Vv than of one person, as we shall illustrate below. Israel, and not an individ-
val such as David, is the speaker here, so that it is hardly probable that

‎such a statement could refer to a son of David. The ‏מסורה‎ makes reference

‎to ‏הוא ינהגנר על-מות‎ (Psalm 48:15), a massorak which can be interpreted in

‎different ways. Rashi stated that, in accordance with this massorak, the‏ ש
‎ie. it would not be phrase at all, but one single‏ ;עלמות ‎phrase should read‏

‎word. Eben Ezra and Kimchi, in ‏,שרשים‎ however, feel that, according to this

‎Vv massorah, ‏על מות‎ is, indecd, a phrase consisting of two words. In the Midrash,
too, ‏על-מות‎ jn ‏הוא ינהגנו על-מות‎ 36 interpreted either as two words; i.e, “He

‎Jeads us forth over death to immortality”; ‏בו מיתה‎ PRY OMY ‏,זט ,אתנסיא‎ as

‎one word, ie., maby, derived from ‏,עלם‎ “in the vigor of youth’, ‏.בזריזות‎

‎Vv Finally, also from ‏,העלים‎ “to hide”, we derive ‏,עלמות‎ “the secret”, that which
ts hidden or ‏נעה"ב‎ Way ‏.שני עולמות‎ We can see that these meanings are almost

‎identical, “He leads us to immortality, in the eternal vigor of youth, through

‎— the present into the future” would be a thought closely akin to “He leads us
forth over death”, etc. An explanation that would seem a little more remote

‎| would be “He leads us in a secret manner, in a fashion known but to Him”,