self-deception and, if they have erred, they understand and admit in honesty

and uprightness that they have sinned.
‏הרנינר‎ as in wy ‏הרנינו גוים‎ (Deut. 32:43), ‏ולב אלמנה ארנין‎ (Job 29:13),
“to cheer someone who is downcast.” ‏,רנן‎ sce Commentary to Psalm 33:1,

5
PSALM XXXIII

V. 1. The theme of this psalm is one single thought; namely, that
if we contemplate the world, we should not look upon it simply as the
Vv material creation of God. We should always remember that He Who made
the world is also the Lawgiver of all mankind, Who brought both man and
the world into being for one purpose—the fulfillment of His moral Law,
‏ש‎ ‘He has not tumed over the world to man unconditionally, Therefore, future
existence and prosperity are in store only for those who, like Israel, are God-
fearing and cbey His Law, and who await His love because they fear Him.
wr. It is difficult to ascertain accurately the concept expressed by
Vv the word ‏רנן‎ and to state it in one single appropriate word. In places in the
Scriptures such as 137" ‏כל העם‎ RI” (Lev. 9:24(  'ה ‏ירנו בגאון‎ (Isaiah 24:14),
‏ויעבר הרנה במחנה‎ (Kings I, 22:36), etc., ‏רנן‎ is employed to express the
‏ש‎ articulation of powerful emotions and thoughts evoked by some external
stimulus, The fact that mp, the “bursting forth” of emotions that clamor
for expression, frequently occurs with 11 and never in combination with
another word except 135, would support this interpretation. See Psalm 98:4,
Vv Isaiah 14:7, $4:1, 44:23, 52:9, 49:13, 55:12 ‏מצתו רנה‎ ete. Moreover
‏רגנר‎ cannot simply denote inarticulate expressions of emotion, for ‏ותרן‎
‏לטון אלם‎ (Isaiah 35:6) obviously speaks of that which the tongue of the
‏ש‎ mute is powerless to utter; namely, spoken, articulate language. What still
remains a problem, however, is the exact limitation of the concept of 1m.
— ‘The reason for this difficulty is that this expression in itself must of necessity
be quite vague with regard to the kind of thoughts and emotions articulated.
-- It is used in connection with emotions of joy, and good cheer, as well as
| those of grief or sadness. ‏קומי רני בלול‎ (Lament. 2:19(, ‏ואל תשא בעדם רנה‎
Qeremiah 7:16, 11:14), ‏הרנה במהנה‎ gee /5--- anne a ee