do not Iet me be disappointed. Help me reach the goals which Thou hast
set for me, Do not allow me to commit such errors as would cause my
enemies to tejoice.” yoy is the intensified form of ‏,על‎ related to ‏,חלץ‎
‎“unfettered,” to “let go,” a very bigh degree of merriment, or, as in Psalm 9,
Verse 3, it would denote a man’s rejoicing upon relief from a fear that had
5, been troubling him.

V. 3. ‏.גם כל וגל‎ Tp, see Commentary to Gen. 1:9, mp in the
Kal form is “to strive toward a goal,” immersing all of one’s being in
endeavors to achieve this purpose, just as the drop of water, whatever
changes it may go through, will always return eventually to its original place
Vv and state, See ibid. ‏,הבוגדים‎ “those who break faith with the Lord,” as in
Psatm 78:57. They are the exact opposite of the 1p, who feel drawn to
the Lord with every fiber of their being and who will never forsake Him.
‏שי‎ The latter shall never be deceived in their trust, even if at first they seem
unable to attain what is commonly thought of as “success,” The presence
of God, which they seek with their obedient, loyal endeavors, does not depend
‘on whether or not they are “successful” as compared to other men, It is
‏ש‎ dependent only upon man’s pure desire, and those who truly strive toward
Him may be sure of His neamess. On the other hand, he who breaks faith
with God for the sake of alicn interests will find that he has committed this
‏ש‎ breach of faith in vain, and be will be grievously disappointed. He bas
forfeited God's nearness and has gained nothing to compensate for this loss,
Even if it appears that he has indecd attained his heart’s desire by this
means, the rude awakening is inevitable. Every ‘na ‏בגידת‎ is ‏,ריקם‎ for no
Vv person can ever derive the lasting satisfaction he expected from the fruit of
bis work if it was not in conformity with God's will and if the price of his
success was a “breach of faith” against the Lord. ‏ריקם‎ as in Isaiah 55:11:

‎“without having reached the goal.”‏ לא ישוב אלי ריקם שי
‎is the movement toward one specific goal,‏ דרך .דרכיך ‎Vv. 4. “wn‏
‎mw (Cant. 2:14, Ezech, 38:20)‏ .דרג ‎a “way.” Thus the related word‏ —
‎also denotes the striving of an‏ דרך ‎is a “step,” a “stair.” Therefore the word‏
‎individual for the fulfillment of his personal desires, either approved or‏
‎condemned by the moral Law, mix, however, is preponderantly employed‏ |