‎Israel declares, “Therefore I can still praise Him.‏ .אהללה וגו = .31 .שר
‎His love which granted me better fortunes in‏ ,שם ה' ‎Even as I could praise‏
‎for the manifestation of His‏ שם-אלקים ‎the past, { can now give thanks to‏
‎mighty acts in His rule of righteousness in which He must inflict suffering‏

‎Vv upon me. I can still praise Him, and shall praise Him with a song ‘beholding*
His might, ‏,ואגדלנו בתודה‎ and I shall spread the perception of His greatness
through my own hymn of thanksgiving.” God's greatness is proven above

‎Vv all in the wondrous works of His mercy (see Commentary to Numbers 14:19,
Deuteronomy 3:24, Psalm 143:3, 6} and there is no more powerful procla-
mation of His greatness than the thanksgiving that is rendered to Him by

‎the very nation which He has exiled.‏ ש

‎V. 32. “a au°m. The term ‏שור‎ includes all cattle from the moment
of their birth (B.K. 65b), but the term ‏פר‎ is employed only for cattle after
the age of three years, when they bave attained maturity. ‏שור פר‎ ₪ the

‎Vv “bullock,” the animal nearing maturity, much like ‏פר בץ בקר‎ (see Commen-
tary to Leviticus 4:3). The sacrifice of the ‏פר‎ ‘1, the bullock, the young
animal that is soon to grow into a mature bull, as offered by Israel in the

‎‘Temple at the time of its flowering, was io symbolize the growing, maturing‏ ש
‎Israel preparing itself for its vocation and service in the “fields” of the Lord,‏
מפרסת ‎as in‏ מקרין מפרים ‎namely, among mankind (see Commentary ibid.),‏
‎ow (Leviticus 11:3) means “possessed of hors and hoofs.” The horn‏

‎v represents the weapon of defense agcinst attack from without. The hoof is
the symbol for vigorous, firm steadfastness and constancy. In addition to

‎—_ this portrayal of the “blossoming forth to maturity to serve God” as given
05 us by the allegory of ‏,שור פר‎ we have the symbols of the “horns” and the
“hoofs,” the strong defense against attack from the outside as well as the

‎| steadfast preservation of independence within. Both of these aro in crass