A ee
ence. ‏,בכל לבל‎ “with all my emotions, with every mood of my heart, joyous
or sorrowful,” says Isracl, "I shall strive to attain clarity as regards God, and
I shall proclaim the recognition of God which 1 shail thus gain.” ‏נפלאותיך‎
‎xp, See Commentary to Exod. 3:20, 15:11. “I wish to proclaim all the acts
of Thy rele which ace manifestations of Thy direct intervention in the
course of history.” These acts are particularly the great miracles that occurred
when Israel first became a nation and which revealed the greatness of God.

‎related to nos, is the sensation of inner‏ ,שמת .אשמתה ‎"i‏ .3 .ער

‎5 “expansion”, of progress in emotional development, of that serenity and
= that mood of joy that should ever be the portion of the pure in heart, and
which the righteous should always seek to attain and to preserve, 79, which

‎is 199, strengthened by the x, the consonant and sound indicating the over-

‎coming of resistance; related to yon, “to free oneself from bonds,” is an

‎expression for the feeling of blessed relief from oppression and confinement.‏ שי
‎is a frame of mind that is essential for the recognition of all that is‏ שמחה

‎good and true, “The nearness of God is to be won not by somow and

‎indotence, nor by jest and levity, etc., but by the joy that comes from

‏אין שכינה שורה לא מתוך עצבות ולא מתוך עצלות ולא מתוך שחוק ולו ‎Vv duty fulfilled.”‏
‎is the‏ שמך עליון ‎Tina (Sabbath 30b).‏ קלות ראש וכו' אלא מתוך שמחה של מצות
‎recognition of how God invisibly guides the course of events in His own‏

‎paths, “fcom the heights”, as it were, without intervening directly. Cf. Chap.‏ שי
‎This is a realization which should be expressed by means of an ine‏ .7:18
‎spiced hymn. It is a realization which can be gained only if, instead of allow-‏
‎ing ourselves to be depressed or oppressed by the vicissitudes of living, we‏

‎v shall know how to preserve that joy of life which can be attained only through
faith in God.

‎Israel says, “I acknowledge God in every mood of my heart, and—

‎v even though I should fait to understand God’s workings in the course of my
destiny—I shall still gladly tell of the miracles of God which I have experi-
enced and which are proof of His Sovereignty, and 1 shall exult in them.

‎Yet I wish to gain from Hin serenity, that joyous mood unbowed by the‏ ש
‎vicissitudes of life, so that I may eventually be able to detect His presence‏

‎— even in those of His acts hidden from the ordinary eye, and to sing praises
unto His Name, unto ‘the Most High.”

‎Such thoughts, proclaiming God's Sovereignty “from on high,” now
| ave expressed in the verses that follow.