- ‏וש ור‎ 1 FEN Me OLE ‏בו‎ Oe Udy ‏-13סנוהת טנ שפסטן‎ she Will
decide when that day shall be. He judges me also now in accordance with the
extent to which I have been righteous and morally innocent.” ‏דין‎ denotes the
application of judgment to one individual, the passing of sentence; ‏שפט‎ is the

‎enforcement of the judgment, the arrangement of circumstances in accordance‏ ש
‎“to put something in its proper‏ :שפת ‎with that judgment. It is related to‏
‎is righteous conduct toward one’s‏ צדק ,15:6 ‎Place”. See Comm. to Gen.‏
‎denotes walking in purity with the Lord. See Comm. to‏ תום ‎fellow men.‏
‎Vv Gen. 6:9.‏
‎“to bring something to an end”, to “a con-‏ ,גמד ‎9m),‏ וגו" .10 ‎V.‏
‏גמר חסיד ‎clusion”; to put an end to the existence of something, intransitive, as‏
‎(Ps. 12:2), of, in its teansitive form, “to carry a deliberation or a plan to a‏ שי
‎(ibid, 138:8).‏ ה' יגמר בעדי )77:9 ‎(Ps.‏ גמר אמר ‎conclusion, to carry it out.”‏
‎derived from 13, to put something on a firm basis, to give a definite‏ כונך
‎direction to something (Verse 12). In this case either interpretation might‏
‎Vv be correct. According to the accentuation, the group of words beginning with‏
‎is one sentence combination; “If only Thou wilt‏ צדיק ‎and ending with‏ יגמר נא
‎et the evil of the lawless come to an end, then Thou wilt thus give support‏
‎and the right direction to the righteous, Once the evil planned by the wicked‏ שי
‎is thwarted, the righteous man shall be strengthened in his convictions and in‏
‎his loyalty to his duty, even if that ultimate judgment for which I prayed to‏
‎‘Thee has not yet come about. The Lord is a just God even in the most hidden‏
‎aspects of His sovereignty; in those facets that no human cye has ever beheld‏ ש
‎and that are known only to the person directly concerned. He is a God of‏
‎righteousness even when He ‘tests the heart and passions.'*" While the word.‏
‎preponderantly means “to test something for performance,” ie., to sce‏ נסה ‎ee‏
‎preferably denotes a‏ בחך ‎how much the object of the test is able to accomplish,‏
‎J nye, The “kidneys” or “reins,” denotes the organ af the hacer nacsions. [G-H.1‏ |