filed in the Abode 01 2 RY ‏פומ‎
‎history. Tho grammatical forms and the concise terms in which it is
couched are conducive to a wealth of thoughts. nny ‏דברי‎ are not the
sins themselves, but things that are “produced by sin”; that 15, the come
ditions, situations and circumstances brought about by “crooked” endeavors
that deviate from the right and straight path. ‏דברי עונות‎ in the first half of
Verse 4 is a plural form; the second half of the verse contains yuo, ₪
‏ב‎ singular form, ‏מנר‎ in the first half of Verse 4 is a singular form, and then
‏פשפנר‎ at the end of the sentence is in the plural form again. This means:
Every individual freely admits that the complex situations brought about by
‘his own manifold errors have grown too much for him and he is no longer
‏שי‎ able to fend off their disastrous consequences. But no matter bow varied
and manifold the sins, and no matter what the consequences are for the
individual, depending upon his personality, they 311 together form only one
single yuo, they all have their roots in the “defection” from the One God.
Vv ‘This defection, however, is not the error of only one individual; it is the
common guilt of all, it is ‏פשענו‎  1מ‎ which they have all met and encouraged
one another both by word and by examople. There is only one source at
which they can find redemption from their defection from God, and from
4 the consequences of their error which weigh heavily upon every individual
as well as upon the entire community, and which threaten to bury individual
and nation alike. And this source of deliverance is the very One to Whom
Vv they denied obedience by their act of defection, but Who, in the wondrous
might of His grace, is ready to cancel all the unhappy past and to “bury”
it as if it had never happened, if only the renegades will retum to Him
again in sincerity. ‏תכפרם‎ ank, ‏.דברי עונות ,פשענו‎ The accusative plural
Vv ‏תכפרם‎ refers to ‏,דברי עונות‎ The ‏עונות‎ 197, the ‏מני‎ 110, and the ‏פשענו‎ are
the esrors which ‏.אתה תכפרם‎ For ‏כפר‎ is simply an intensified form of 723,
and related to 3p. To man sin, with its inevitable consequences, is a most
‏ש‎ ‘overpowering force which would bury him alive if God were not mightier
stil, more powerful than the mightiest force in creation, and if, with Divine
—— mo, He would not “bury” sin. ‏גגו'‎ “wx, Once ‏כפרה‎ has paved the way
for a future unctouded by past error, then man will dare wish for the
salvation which can be attained from God. This wish cites Israel as the
| people which God had long ago “chosen and brought near to Himself” as