10) The fear of the Lord is 5 1} 10
pure, enduring forever; the or- ng me ‏את‎ g
n creatures conceming which these mandates were enjoined upon us. However,
had they not been ‘1 ‏מצות‎ commanded us as our duty by the Lord Himself,
we would never have been able to arrive at them ourselves, by means of
our own sophistry and speculation. Certainly we could never have devised
them ourselves in as broad and specific a form as that in which they were
handed down to us by the Lord’s command. Had God not explicitly
enjoined these Mitzvoth upon us we would still be controlted by the caprices
of our own emotions and ideas, Without Mitzvoth we would still be prone
to all those errors that creep into our judgment of ourselves and of the
things and persons about us because of our shortsightedness, prejudices,
5, momentary moods, agitation or cmotional exhaustion. It is only ‏מצות ה'‎
0 the commandment of the Lord that is 773, of cloudless clarity which remains
bright forever. It shows us at all mes where our duty lies. It is ‏מאירת‎
‎bey. It opens our eyes to the proper recognition of our tasks and helps
us fulfil our duties to both men and things, simply because they are indecd
‏שי‎ our duties, It is ‏מצות ה"‎ God's will that we do our duty towards all, regard-
less of whether or not they deal kindly with us in retum, We never feel
cheated because we expect nothing from them in retum for what we do
for them. At least we did not discharge our duty toward them with any
4 thought of future reward. It is said elsewhere in the Holy Scriptures that
he who is ‏,שומר מצות‎ who does his duty and nothing but his duty, ‏לא ידע‎
‏רע‎ "37, will never experience a completely crushing or devastating blow.
‏,יראת ה' וגול .10 שי‎ IF we compare this verse with the four verses
preceding it and the one following it, we can deduce that this sentence
‏יראת ה' וגול‎ does not simply designate our attitude upon which all our
‏ש‎ personal relationship with God and all our life's duty should be based.
This sentence, just like those preceding and those following, also refers to
a certain definite aspect of this duty as set down in Divine Law, We may
safely assume that the laws referred to in this first part of Verse 10 belong,
‏שי‎ into the category of arpin, which otherwise would be missing in this
description of the various categories into which Divine Law is divided and
which are set down in this psalm. Moreover, these two groups of laws
‏ש‎ called ‏חוקים‎ and ‏משפטים‎ are usually found together wherever they arc
mentioned in the Holy Scriptures, with the word ‏חוקים‎ preceding ‏;משפטים‎
‎— ie., ‏.הוקים ומשפטים‎ In this verse of Psalm 19, therefore, we can assume
that the word ’ ‏יראת‎ which precedes ‏טהורה‎ here, is meant to denote the
-- mpm, This interpretation would also be in accordance with the adjective
| ‏סהורה‎ which is employed here to describe ‏טהרה. יראת ה'‎ is the moral purity