ה אע
‎that entice generation of sinners to perish and waited calmly for the rise‏
‎of a new generation that would better serve His aims. In the same manner,‏
‎the Lord bad sat unchanged and uoshakea upon the throne of His‏
‎Sovereignty even in the face of the corruption of all mankind at the time‏
‎of the Flood. ‘The degenerate have perished, but God and the goals of‏
‎His rute have endured. He allowed one entire sinful generation of men to‏
‎perish by the flood so that the goals of His role might be brought to‏
‎fruition by that one man who had remained true and loyal to Him. ‘This‏

5 man and his family would preserve these goals for the future through the
- new generation of men that was to be descended from him. ‏וישב ה' מלך לעולם‎
even at that time the Lord had already revealed Himself in the might of His
eternal, unchangeable ways over men and in His dealings with them. No
nation oa earth, in fact, not even all of mankind, has the power to alter

‎the will of God. Men have only two alternatives. Either they submit to‏ ש
‎the will of God and freely and joyously devote themselves to His service‏
‎in moral purity and respect for the right, or else they shall be irretrievably‏
‎Tost in the course of His rule as it moves on inexorably to bring about the‏

‎v fulfillment of God's will among men.

‎V. 11. ‘wi ny ‏.ה'‎ The Lord showed ny, the invincible and change-
ess power and might of His will and of His standards to all of mankind

‎(therefore His Law is also referred to as ny Psalm 78:61, 132:8) at the‏ ש
‎time of the Flood, and to Israel in the wilderness of Kadesh. In both these‏
‎instances He demonstrated His ny by causing those generations who opposed‏
‎His will to perish from the earth. But the same God Who uproots the‏

‎Vv wicked allows those who obey His will as revealed to them, to partake in
His eternal, invincible strength and majesty. Those who with their obedience
demonstrate that they are indeed wy, and who serve the only goals that

‎are sure to win the final victory over afl opposing forces, will themselves have‏ ש
‎a part in the frvits of this victorious perseverance. They subordinate all of‏
‎their being and all their aspirations 10 the will of the Lord as shown them‏

‎by His Law. ‘Therefore whatever they do and desire is in full accord with‏ ש
‎those ends for which the Lord laid His physical world at mankind's feet.‏

‎0 These ends are the goal toward which God's ways have led throughout the
ages; namely, to stamp all the relationships of men and nations with the

‎-- eternal brand of His rule, Those men who submit to the will of the Lord,
| shall atone receive the true blessing of peace for all their desires and