----- ‏אה‎ =
which is not watered merely by rain, but is tended by artificial irrigation
and has been laid out in such a manner as to facilitate this artificial watering
process. In view of all the foregoing, we believe that ‏ערג‎ would indicate the

5 thirst for water, and we wish to point out that in the Mishna, too, 43
that requires artificial irrigation (Moed Katan ibid.) is called ‏הטלהין‎ ma,
which is explained as ‏,לישנא דצחותא‎ an expression of thirst, like ‏,שלה‎ which,
in Chaldaic, means “to pant, to be faint.”

tex ordinarily occurs in the masculine gender, but the predicate,
4 ‏,תערוב‎ is feminine, in order to denote the extreme weakness resulting from
thirst. ‏פיק ,אפיקד‎ is “to come out,” “to emerge.” With the ‏א‎ placed at the
beginning of the word, as in ‏,אגרוף‎ it means “the water that springs forth.”
Vv The roe-deer, faint with thirst, stands in a deep place of the desert; it hears
springs of water roar forth from the rocky heights above, but it cannot go
up. It knows that there is a spring of water above it, but cannot reach the
‏ש‎ drink for which it thirsts. The same is true of Israel brought low by the
sufferings of exife. Israel knows full well that there is a God above; it
knows that its God is near, but yet it feels as if it were far away from Him,
Israel Jacks the strength to soar up to Him and to win His neamess.
Vv ‏על אפיקי‎ as ‏על ה'‎ )1 Sam. 1:10).
V. 3. ‏.צמאה וגו"‎ Israel's soul thirsts for the Lord, for the “living
God” as opposed to the “dead” idols of the nations that surround it. Israel
‏שי‎ yearns for that day when it will be permitted to “come home again” and
to sce itself again as standing before the face of the Lord (see Commentary
to Exod. 23:17), when it will be able to sense once more that God is not
far away, but is near in loving concer, Israel will then know that, in
‏ש‎ all its totality, it stands united before the face of the Lord.
V. 4. ‏.היתה וגול‎ Israel's yearning for God is so great that it feels
no desire for any other nourishment. Its tears have become its bread,

—— and they never cease to flow because of the constant ridicule that it must
endure from the other nations who scomnfully ask, ‏אלהיך‎ x. The Jewish
nation sadly stands aside. The rejoicine of the ather natione nnicihy naccee