Jestce alone,

to the spiritual and moral aspect of man, it denotes man’s inner struggles,
and his tumph over the consequences of his transgressions which may well
deprive him of his moral and spiritual powers (cf. Psalm $1:16). Thus we
have ‏ילבשו תשועה‎ (in 11 Chron, 6:41) and the same thought again in ‏כהניך‎
‏צדק‎ wal (Psalm 132:9). (Cf. Commentary to Exodus, Chapter 28.) “I
, shall merely 26/1 of Thy ‏,צדקה‎ for ‏לא ידפתי‎ I would not know how to enumerate
- ‘Thy ‏צדקות‎ individually.” David docs not say ‏,לא יכלתי‎ that he was unable to
count them because of their infinite number, as in ‏אם תוכל לספר אותם‎ (Gen.
15:5). What David intends to say here, instead, is; “I would not understand
how to go about enumerating them. Were I to do so, it would be in coutra-
‏שי‎ diction with all the experience I have gathered in my lifetime, and in contra-
diction with my philosophy of life. For Thou, O Lord, bast taught me from
my earliest youth to regard all my life and all the development of my per-
sonality as Thy product, Thy creation. All my life is a b3, and all the individual
Vv °b2 I have experienced are only partial aspects of this one great b1. Hence
my present spiritual and moral resurrection, all the ‘renewal of my being?
that has now come about is a product of Thy np tt, and the greatness of that
‏צדקת ש‎ would only be diminished if 1 were to enumerate the individual phases
thereof. I shall therefore indeed tell of them, but will never attempt to enu-

merate them in detail.”
V. 16. | ‏בגברות \גו'‎ max. David says to God, “If I were to begin to
Vv elaborate upon the works of Thy omnipotence, I would recall solely Thy
‏יצדקה‎ For that ‏צדקה‎ which is manifested in the moral rebirth of one who has
sunk 10 the depths of depravity, and has made himself worthy of this Divine
‏ש‎ favor by ‏(תשובה‎ is the greatest work of God’s omnipotence, far greater than
all the ‏נסים‎ that accompanied ‏".יציאת מצרים‎ In accordance with the law
of cause and effect upon which God Himself has founded the order of the
world, any man who commits a sin would surely have to perish. Tle con-
Vv sequences of his sin, both tangible and intangible, would bring about his
speedy downfall. But, for the sake of man, God in His mercy suspends the
jaw which He Himself has made. Any man, even if he has been guilty of
7-- the most heinous of crimes, has the opportunity to return to God. Through
| genuine ‏תשובה‎ he can become a ‏חדשה‎ WH, a new person, attain renewed
‘moral vigor and new joy in doing good, and, in cenrral. aven reach 2 sniritual