payee’ waa ip 8 Pie Oe ——e——————E—E—_—_—_—__eO
‏אש‎ decree which He in His wisdom and righteousness would ordain for him for
the atonement and the blotting out of his guilt, But then David adds, “At
the same time, remember that Thou hast made up the human being of two
separate elements. Indeed, part of us is physical and sensual, and therefore
we have the capacity for physical desires which, if not properly channelled,
will clamor for satisfaction even outside the bounds of the moral Law. Thus
we all bear within us the capacity for deviating from the proper path.
I, too, even when still a babe in my mother’s arms, was subject to the
temptation to sin.” Or, if we interpret xen in accordance with its original
meaning derived from ‏,התה‎ we find here a statement to the effect that
- “When I was a babe in my mother’s arms I was not yet subject to the rule
and control of the Divine fire of the Law, for this is a kind of obedience
which man can acquire only by training and maturity and not by birth.”
‏.הן אמת וגג"‎ At the same time, David reminds the Lord that this
‏ש‎ physical, 5005031 element is only one aspect of buman nature, ‘The physical
aspect of man is only 1p, an outer husk, beneath which there are hidden
‏(טוחות)‎ spiritual and moral faculties and energies. “It is to these ‏טוחות‎
‏שי‎ that ‏,חפצת‎ Thou hast directed Thy will, Thou hast made it the task of these
energies, properly channeling the physical part of my nature, and not
sitply of the animal forces of my being, to do Thy will. And even as Thou
‏שי‎ dost ‘direct Thy will’ to the intangible, spiritual powers within me, ‏ובסתם‎
‏,חכמה תודיעני‎ Thou dost enable me, with the aid of these ‘hidden’ energies,
to recognize also all the intangible spiritual values that are concealed amidst
the physical world about me. Thou hast given to the spirit within me the
Vv power to communicate with the spiritual forces of the world outside which
are nothing else but the emanations of Thy own spirit. Hence I possess
the ability to perceive that wisdom which is revealed in all the phenomena
‏שי‎ of nature and in all the events of history, that basic wisdom which men
should apply in their own lives.
“All the dignity and honor of the human being are based upon his
‏שי‎ dual nature, Even though capable of sinning and susceptible to the tempta-
fions of sensuality, man also is endowed with the ability to become and to
---- remain the master of these sensual drives. Therefore, however sadly I
may have succumbed to the temptations of my physical desires, with Thy
| aid I can become master of my passions once more and regain my moral
purity.”