18) If you see a thief, you ap- fy my 333” ‏אדא‎ (18

“ prove of him and with adulterers mn ₪ ‏יפ‎ -
‏די‎ RAE ‏כ‎ By]
nection, in Sanhedrin 106b, our sages point to the example of sxrt and
‘mmnne, who possessed an immense knowledge of the ‏תורה‎ and yet had
utterly forfeited their happiness, both in this world and the next. We are
told that ‏השפה ולחוץ‎ yo ‏.אין תורתו של דואג אלא‎ All of axn’s scholarship was
nothing but shallow lip service, ‏ליבא בעי‎ nan. But the Lord demands that
wo serve Him with our hearts first and foremost. ‏.ה' יראה לבב‎ Even the

- great erudition of such men did not accomplish anything constructive
‏סוד ה' ליראיר זט לא הוה סלקא להו שמעתא אליבא ההלכתא‎ the fear of the Lord
is a basic prerequisite also for genuine, truly scientific knowledge.)
According to the final verses of this psalm (Verses 22 and 23),
the ‏רשע‎ described here also docs not neglect to bring the prescribed

‎sacrifices. But while those addressed in Verses 8—15 have been found‏ ש
‎wanting only in the positive, complete discharge of the task of life as‏
‎is in total contradiction‏ רשע ‎symbolized by the act of sacrifice, the life of the‏

‎to the Jewish concept of duty as indicated by the sacrifice and as expounded‏ שי
.מה לך וגו" :רשע ‎to the world by his own speech. Therefore the Lord asks the‏
‎This question implies that i¢ is not only of no avail for the wicked man to‏
‎speak of God's Law and of His covenant, but that he is not even worthy‏

‎Vv of talking of them. “Is it for you to talk of such things?” the Lord asks of
the ‏,רשע‎ We have already noted how the expression ‏ספר חקי‎ implies the
wicked man’s attitude’ of utter indifference to the statutes to which be pays

‎the essence‏ ,ותשא בריתי וגו ‎service and of which he prates to others,‏ קוד ש
‎is that we consciously should translate into reality in our own‏ ברית ‎of the‏
‎Practical lives the Divine Laws whose validity we have already acknowledged‏
‎in theory.‏

‎v V.17, ‘at ‏.תה‎ Every word of the mn, the precepts of which
be knows and of which he constantly speaks, places certain explicit demands
and Umitations upon our desires and our ambitions, our speech and our

‎actions, and thus banishes caprice from our midst. “These limitations”‏ שי
‎{the literal meaning of 10° is “to bind”) “are hateful to you,” says the Lord.‏
‎to which you pay lip service,‏ ברית ‎“Therefore, in crass contradiction to the‏
‎you cast behind your back these words of Mine, which you know so well,‏
‎instead of letting them servo as your guiding light.”‏

‎| V. 18. ‏ראית וגר‎ bx. “You yourself may not be a thief or an