‘The 737, in which repose the altar, candelabra, and Incense altar, is the
antechamber of the 72%, ‏דביר‎ is the “abode of the might of the Lord”
which demonstrates ‏,ארך ימים בימינה בשמאלה עושר וכבוד‎ how the ‏,תורה‎
‎reposing in the Holy of Holies, lights our lamp, prepares our table, grants
5, us the physical means for life on earth and the spiritual prerequisities for
jife eternal, and at the same time teaches us how to devote all our physical
and spiritual energies to the fulfillment of the will of the Lord on earth
‏הקטרת)‎ mama). (See Commentary to Exod. 25:23--40, Exod. 30:1—10).
(pa denotes the striving to come to know a certain subject or object
Vv in all its specific characteristics; ie., discriminating perception.) See Com-
mentary to Lev. 19:20. The task taught us by the symbol of the ‏,היכל‎
‎namely, to muster and utilize all our physical and spiritual desires and
‏ש‎ endeavors through the ‏תורה‎ and for the ‏,תורה‎ must lead us immediately to
seek some knowledge of all the particulars of said task from the law whose
content they form, and to use the standard set by this law for evaluating
all the circumstances and conditions of life. The expression spa denotes
‏ש‎ the attainment of the ability to judge in accordance with this standard,
Cf Psalm 73:7. David, then, tells us here, “This is my goal, to attain God's
neamess in every moment and every aspect of my life, ever to keep before
‏ש‎ my eyes the splendid way in which all carthly affairs are shaped under His
guidance, and to seek to increase my understanding of the truths of life
by drawing from the wellspring of wisdom sct down in the Sanctuary of
God's Law." This spiritual and moral goal wil remain unchanged, regardless
Vv of what the future may bring. It is an inner joy of life which the enmity
of men can neither destroy nor disturb. ‘This inner, moral spiritual striving
is the source of the fearless faith expressed in the preceding verses.
‏ש‎ V. 5. ‏זג"‎ “wz ‏כי‎ is an explanation of the proceding verse ‏שבתי‎
‏בבית ה"‎ etc. yx is used preponderantly to express 8 concealment that shelters
--- and protects the one hidden, white ‏סתר‎ and ‏הסתיך‎ preponderantly denote the
kind of hiding that conceals the person from the view of others. ‏סכה‎ 5
‏כתיב.‎ and ‏:קרי‎ 120. “The simplest ‏,סכה‎ the fowliest hut which will give me
| shelter is 120 to me. It is to me a shelter which He Himself has prepared