ns
PSALM LXIL .
1( To Him Who grants victory; ‏קז‎ PANT by mH? 6 ‏סב‎
‎upon the providences of God's ‏לת‎
‎hand. A Song of David. *
bliss, Jt is for this reason that I must come to know ‏מדת הדין‎ as well as
‏הרחמים.‎ Ni, ‏אמת‎ as well ax ‏-חסד‎ My spizitual work cam have significance for
2S, all times to come only if life will bring me a share of sorrow and anguish
as well as gladness and rejoicing. Therefore, o Lord, appoint Thou nox
as well as ‘Ton to be the guardians and guides of my moral and spiritnal
growth. I welcome both sorrow and joy as mentors appointed to train and
discipline me.” ‏מן‎ is the imperative, Piel, of mm. mp is “to appoint by
Vv apportionment,” cf, ‏ולילות עמל מנו לי‎ (Job 7:3), ‏מנה את מאכלכם‎ (Daniel 131),
It also has the connotation of “appointing a person to perform an activity
‘upon another object,” of. ‏זיסן ה' דג גדול לבלע יונה‎ (Jonah 2:1). The same
Vv meaning applies here. “123 see Commentary to Deut. 0.
‏.ץר‎ 9. ‘up. “Thus, amidst the abundance of my experiences of
both aspects of God's rule, ton and nex, ‏,לשלמי נדרי יום יום‎ 1 shall perform:
v the vows of my life each day" (Verso 6). "I shall take the varied experiences
cach day will bring, joy and sorrow, in all their multiplicity, and make them
the theme of a song in praise of God's greatness. With cach such hymn
‏ש‎ I perform part of the task to which 1 have vowed to dedicate my life.”
PSALM LXII
v ¥..1, ‏,ידותת‎ Soe Psalm 39:1. In this psalm, too, it is David's wish
to tench us the proper understanding of the ways of Providence shown us by
the band of God. He stresses the fact that, contrary to the opinion commonly
‏שי‎ held, God is all the more near us in His mercy when we are made to feel His
stern decree as manifested in the suffering we may experience in life. As 8
—— matter of fact, this sternness itself is actually loving-kindness in which God
metes out to us our portion according to the way of life we have pursued.
At the same time if, in the time of trouble, we tum to Him and to Him
| alone, He will again prove His mercy as the true ‏,מנצת‎ by bestowing upon us