- ‏תרווכ וו‎
‏ב‎ its own name and set for it the paths in which it must travel", so God has
called him, too, by His own Name and charted out the ways in which he must
walk. Then the name of the Lord, the concept of God, shall spell “confine-
ment and terror to the “Enosh” in his pride, but liberation, preservation

‎and a source of joy undimmed to the heart of that man who shall have become‏ ש
‎conscious of being an “Adam” in the service of the Lord.‏

‎The “Enosh”, and with him “enmity and vengeance”, shalt be buried
under the starry sky that proclaims the greatness of God, while “Adam”,

‎v together with “brotherhood and selE-sacrificing devotion” shall rejoice in his
resurrection. For the “Adam” shall learn ‏,כל תפקדנר‎ the great and world-
redeeming mandate of duty, life’s task as set him by the Lord.

‎That man who has degenerated to the Ievel of an “Enosh” knows‏ ש
‎only “bis own rights” and regards as his duty only that which would aid him‏
‎in the preservation and assertion of what he thinks are his rights. To him‏
‎his own ego constitutes the basis of bis rights and the goal of his duties.‏

‎The man who has risen to the level of an “Adam”, however, knows‏ שי
‎only bis duty and secks justification of his desires and ambitions only within‏
‎the framework of that which will aid him in carrying out bis duty. ‘To him,‏

‎God is the source and the goal of his duty and the basis of his rights.‏ ש

‎V.6. ‘ur ‏.ותהסרהו‎ To what awesome helghts—vnique in all creation,
has God raised man by making him conscious of the fact that be is an
“Adam”. This status of "Adam, however, does not set him apart from the

‎v other creatures that must also serve God; he has merely been placed at their
head as the first servant of God, Man is the only creature called upon con-
sciously to do his duty, morally free, the only being so endowed besides

‎—— God—that Oue and absolute free Force. How much higher, then, is the pure
aman than the stars, since he is a free, thinking servant at God’s throne. He
has been raised almost to Divine heights as a morally free person. aware of