Four of these psalms, ‏בהצתו את ארם וגו', בשלח שאול וישמרו את הבית להמיתו,‎
‏,בברהו מפני שאול במערה ,באחוז אותו פלשתים בגת‎ record David's emotions and
thoughts at crucial moments of his life, The significance of Psalm 60 for the
entire Jewish nation is indicated by the addition of the word ‏ללמזד‎ in the first
verse to show that this is to be a permanent memorial not only for David, but
for ail the nation to remember forever. Psalm 58 does not contain any refer-
ence to such a historical factor, but the words ‏אל תשחת‎ in its superscription are
3S, meant to point out that the psalm was written at a time when only complete
trust in God could give the righteous some assurance that the world would
not become entirely corrupt. In Psalm 16, too, David records for everlasting
remembrance a moment at which he escaped unscathed from direst peril.
‘This danger was not physical in nature, but was one derived from a mental

‎error which bad almost led him to stray from his pure relationship with God.‏ ש
‎This was indeed the one crucial moment in David's life which deserved to‏
8 מכתם ‎remain etched in his memory forever. Therefore the superscription is‏

‎“monument”, or an everlasting “memorial.”‏ ש

‎refers either to the danger represeated by the error of which‏ שמרני וג"
‎David speaks in the ensuing passages, or else—and this is more likely—it‏
‎is the motto which David has adopted to guide the rest of his life in contrast‏

‎to his former exror. As we shall see in the passages that follow, David's error‏ ש
‎here was that he very nearly fell prey to the delusion that, since God is so‏
‎far above the earth, He is also remote from earthly affairs, and thus has left‏

‎the guidance and management of terrestrial matters to the power of human‏ שי
‎beings, In contrast to this error, David has devised for himself the motto‏
‎thus placing himself completely and trustingly under the sole and‏ ,שמרני ‎ont‏
‎direct care of God.‏

‎Vv ‏אמרת וגר = .2 .ער‎ David is addressing himself. This is the memoran-
dum that David has recorded for himself so that he might keep it in mind all
the days of his life. The use of ‏אמרת‎ which is a feminine form of address, con-

‎‘veys the thought that the person thus spoken to is weak. See Comm. to Num.‏ שי
‎Deut, 5:24, “One day, in a moment of weakness, you said to the‏ ,11:15

‎--- Lord, ‘Thou art indeed my Master, I am entirely at Thy service with every
act of my life, and 1 know it is my duty to fulfil! those commandments which

‎‘Thou hast revealed to us, However, ‘nz, my welfare here on earth, my

‎| fate pop ‏,בל‎ does not rest with Thee’.” The literal interpretation might be: