your banner in ine Dame 01 ‏ד צי תשס‎ :0 rE TA ‏פה‎
‎God; may the Lord fulfill all your ‏מִקְאלותָּ:‎
‎desires.
‎instance it is Saul who answers Samuel who has just risen from the grave in
response to Saul’s call. Samuel asks Saul ‏למה הרגזתני להעלות אתי‎ and the
latter replies ‏ואקראה לך להודיעני מה אעשה‎ that, in bis state of utter bewilder-
5 ment and perplexity, he could not content himself with merely calling upon
Samuel. Saul asked Samuel to appear to him in person, so that he might
obtain Samuel's advice and counsel in person as if the prophet were still
before him in the flesh.
V.5. "O74 mm. We willingly subscribe our plans, counsels and
Vv their execution to ‏לבבך‎ and ‏,עצתך‎ all that which you desire in your own heart
and to what ever you decide in your own mind, 3235 refers to the thought
symbolized by the ‏עצתך ;מנחה‎ to the concept represented by the ‏.עולה‎ “Because
‏ש‎ you lay all your wishes and your endeavors at the feet of the Lord, because
you dedicate them all to the fulfillment of His will and can therefore expect
His grace and favor, we, too, will join you with all our own wishes and
endeavors. We shall dedicate ourselves to the execution of your will, just
‏ש‎ as you consecrate your own striving to the will of the Lord.” This thought
is further elaborated upon in Verse 6. This is the tre homage paid by the
people of Israel to the ‏דוד‎ ma ‏.סלכות‎ It is the genuine appreciation of the
‏ש‎ role of that kingdom in helping Israel fulfil its task and destiny as a nation.
‏וגל ,6 שר‎ mim. We shail shout for joy in whatever victories you
may achieve, and ‏אי נדגל‎ bU3. ‏גל‎ 15 “a banner,” see Commentary to Num,
‏שי‎ 1:52. In its verbal form, however, ‏דבל‎ does not mean “to raise” a banner,
but “to rally round the banner” of another. Thus we read in Cant. 5:10,
ADI ‏דודי צח זאדום דגול‎ “My beloved is ‘light’ and ‘life,’ surrounded by tens
of thousands.” Tens of thousands rally round his banner, or rally round
v him as their banner, We also have (ibid. 6:4, 10) ‏איומה כנדגלות‎ “commanding
respect like those about whose benner men will rally.” We thus interpret the
thought in Verse 6 to be, “We rally round your banner in the name of the
--- Lord, because we know that, in doing so, we rally round the banner of the
Lord.” ‏ימלא ה' וגר‎ “We thereby state that we know of no other wish but
that God may fulfill all your desires,”