living thing on eacth. The Law of God which miles the earth through the
‏ב‎ heavens can be recognized everywhere.  םהילמ ‏,ובקצה תבל‎ and there where
the “confused” world of man ends, the heavens utter their word for all to
heat, “He, the Lord, has built a tent in them (in the heavens) for the orb
of the sum.” In the world of men, where human caprice seems to reign
supreme, and which is therefore called ‏תכל‎ (from ‏(בלל.‎ , God's work of
v creation is overlooked amidst the creativity of men. But, once one steps
out from the world of men into the realm of nature’s forces, nature can
readily be perceived proclaiming itself to be the creation of God. This
Vv evidence of the presence of God in nature, and of His Sovereignty through
nature, can be readily understood if one contemplates one particular heavenly
body, that is, the sun, The significance of this golden orb for the entire
world and for every living thing thereon is so great and mighty that pagans,
4 in ancient times as well as even unto the very present day, bave worshipped
it, thinking that it is the real God over the earth. To the more thoughtful
observer, however, this selfsame sphere proclaims in the most obvious
‏שי‎ manner that there is a Being still greater that has set it upon the firmament.
Hebrew semantics, therefore, calls this orb ‏,שמש‎ a root which, in the
Chaldean tanguage, is the expression most commonly employed to denote
“serving.” Thus the sun is the servant, the first, most outstanding servant
Vv in God's houschold of physical creation.
bmx. ‘Thus it is said of heaven: ‏הימתחם באהל לשבת‎ (Isaiah 40:22).
But here it is stated ana ‏,שם אהל‎ not “all of heaven is the tent of the sua”
‏שי‎ in which the latter may wander about at will, but it is made clear that the
sun has been assigned only a limited space upon the firmarnent for its circuit.
_ V. 6,7. “sn ‏מקצ‎ "a wm, Like a bridegroom who awakens on his
— wedding day, so the sun blithely steps forth each day from its chamber on
the horizon, (CE. ‏השמש יצא על הארץ‎ Gen. 19:23). As its brilliance increases,
| it rejoices like a hero, as if the power to run its course were its own.