5, to remember the transgressions of which he was guilty in the years of his
0 immaturity, but rather to recall the mercies which He showed to David
even during the years of the latter’s youth. ‏,למעץ טובך ה'‎ “Not because 1 am
so deserving of Thy favor, but solely for the sake of Thy ‘goodness’ which
Thou dost bestow upon all under Thy Sovereignty. ‘The purpose of Thy
Vv ways, as 'n is to lead men to a pore and bappy future,” as is further ex-
Plained in the ensuing verses.
‏.טוב וישר ה'  .8 יר‎ The Lord is as upright as He is good, and as
‏שי‎ good as He is upright. It is His desire to deal kindly with men, but at the
same time He wants men to live so that they become worthy of His favor.
It is His will to bring man close to his ethical goals, but He docs this oaly
for the sake of man himself so that He, the Lord, can then bestow upon
‏ש‎ man the favor of His mercy.  רגו ‏,על כך‎ therefore He shows even ‏חטאים‎
‎sinners, who have grown old in sin (see Psalm 1:1, 104:35) the right paths
in which they must walk. Or, in view of the accentuation, a better inter-
‏שי‎ pretation would be, “He teaches and trains even ‏,חטאים בדרך‎ sinners who
have grown old on the path of life.” He will not forsake anyone who is
still capable of being taught and trained, This would include even him
whom force of habit may have caused to give in to his passions and ‏(מזיד)‎
‎v who may intentionally do what is morally evil, as long as he is not ‏,להכעיס‎
‎as long as be docs not flaunt bis sin and is not a ‏לץ‎ and ‏הצוף‎ who spitefully
and impudently mocks or scoms the good. God will not abandon anyone,
‏שי‎ who, though he sins habitually, does so only because be is morally weak,
and is aware of this frailty of his. Anyone who has not lost every vestige
—— of my humility and awareness of his weaknesses will not be forsaken by
the Lord.
V.9. ‏,ידרך וגו"‎ He leads the humble, who still cam be led and can
| still profit by discipline, ‏במשפט‎ through “judgment.” He guides them in the
‏עשת 6תובת וע‎ manne of inflisting an the |} Ot ee