on from one life to another. He who follows this path will sce ‘Thy presence
5, in every moment of his life, both in this world and in the world to come. He
0 will find in this perception of Thy neamess the greatest happiness, the ‘fullness
of joy’ which wants for nothing and knows of naught else.” He shall receive |
nothing but bliss from the hands of the Lord. !
v PSALM XVII
V. 1. The word ‏(חפלה‎ as we have already stated repeatedly, is nat “a
plea” but a kind of self-evaluation, the search for proper understanding before
‏ש‎ God, Therefore it is possible to add here the descriptive phrase ‏|בלא שפתי מרמה‎ |
This is a ‏תפלה‎ which is not based on deceit, and does not center on deception. !
Such an assertion would have little meaning if it were to refer to a plea. It |
‏שי‎ used in connection with self-evaluation, however, this phrase has ‏ה‎ profound
significance. Man is prone to deceive himself when it comes to the taking of an
inventory of his faults and virtues. Man is afraid to examine himself in the |
Tight of the actual truth. In Verse 7 of Psalm 16 David praised the lessons |
‏ש‎ he had Jeamed when darkness overshadowed his life, Psalm 17 describes
one such lesson. 16 is the realization that all suffering has @ purpose—it
tests, strengthens and purifies man, and fortifies him in all his good endeavors.
‏שי‎ ‘Thus even the excesses of the wicked, for the very reason that they cause pain,
contribute to the furtherance of all that is good and to the eventual coming
of the Kingdom of God (Verses 3—6). David has come to see the difference
between the righteous and their adversaries. The happiness of the wicked is
‏ש‎ bound up with the transitory things of the physical world. Their brutality
unwittingly advances the cause of God’s kingdom on earth. The good, o2
the other hand, whom the wicked deprive of all earthly fortune, find more
— than adequate compensation for their pain in their perception of God and
| his workings. They begin to artive at such understanding in this world, and
become perfect in it in the world ta came (Verne ‏פע ג15--7‎ 17