eT ₪ ‏"פה‎ eee ‏מל‎ ee
15, existence ‏(היה)‎ in the Divine plan ‏(הגה)‎ and to realize it by bringing it to
5 life ‏(חיה)‎ with his whole personality. This wish voiced by David did not

exceed the goat set for any other individual, pure human life, and God

granted his request. But, in addition to this, the Lord gave David a calling

which reached far beyond his individual life into the distant future to the

Vv goal toward which all of human development is directed, The fact that this
goal may still be veiled ‏(עולם)‎ makes it no less certain ‏(ועד)‎ . (See Samuel 11,
23:5).

Vv V. 6. ‘i ‏,הוד .גדול‎ is related to ‏,אוד‎ “a lever,” an “instrument of
power,” and to "3, “duration”; it denotes the fullness of life and vigor, per-
sonal majesty. “177, related to 11%, YH, ‏,עדר‎ is “the surroundings,” the outer

‎indicates the thought that‏ תשוה עליו ‎sphere of influence, expansion of power.‏ שי
‎an object was set upon a certain base not by meze chance but because both‏
שויתי עור ‎base and object are suitable for one another. Similarly we have‏
‎(Psalm 89:20). ‘The personality is adequate for the calling it must‏ על גבור

‎Vv fulfill, and the calling, on the other hand, is suited to the personality chosen
to 10188 it, They are mz to one another. ‘This reciprocal suitability assures
the durability and efficacy of the combination,

‎Vv V. 7. ‏.בי תשיתתר וגו"‎ David, because of his psalms which became ₪
spiritual blessing to all mankind and which have a profound significance even
today, was an important instrument for the fulfillment of the promise given

‎So, too, all our hopes for future‏ ,ונברכר בך כל משפחות הארמה ‎to Abraham‏ ש
‎happiness are attached to the advent of the “scion of Jesse” (Isaiah 11:1)‏

‎— who will be descended from the family of David. ‏בשמחק את פניך‎ wan.
‏חדה‎ (see Commentary to Exod. 18:9) is the outward manifestation of joy.
-- ‘an are “the glimpses of God,” the goals of His Sovereignty (sce Com-
| mentary to Num. 6:25). Even a small insight into the goals of God makes

‎David's entire personality shine with joy.