‎Jike‏ כצנה ‎God makes him aware because of his innocence, will surround him‏ אש
‎Num, 33:55), and distress and misery will not‏ צנינים ‎a protective shield (cf,‏
‎disturb his catm and his peace of mind. “Thou surroundest him with favor‏
‎“to separate”‏ ,הדר ,719" ‎“to close off”,‏ ,אטר ‎is related to‏ עטר ‎as with a shield.”‏
‎to close off something by surrounding it. From this we derive the word‏
‎“crown”, the circlet symbolically separating, distinguishing, its wearer‏ ,עטרת.
‎from other persons. “wy is also used in a hostile sense, SO TX DNOE‏

‎bran? ‏אנשיר‎ (Sam. J, 23:26).
If we review the ideas contained in this psalm, we see, then, that it
describes the various ways in which men seck to attain happiness on earth,
5, and the results of their endeavors in this respect. 973, lawlessness will seek
it by way of “evil”, “boasting”, “violence”, “deceit” and “deception”. But
even if evil seems to triumph temporarily, it will still eventually perish as the
result of its own plotting, The prs, the righteous man, gocs 10 God's
Sanctuary to seck for himself those principles that are to guide bis conduct,
Vv and the truths that are to help him in reasoning and in forming his judgment.
Even if he seems to suffer temporary defeat, God's blessing still awaits him
in the end. Whatever may befall bim, the knowledge that he has won God's
‏שי‎ favor will uphold him and will keep away from him distress and misery with
all their depressing force. He shall yet be happy in the future, and even today
‘he is more fortunate than the others. The title word ‏נחילות‎ is thus descriptive
of the contents of this psalm, since Psalm 5 does picture to us the various
v moma, the destinies and final acquisitions of men, God is the ‏.מנצח אל הנחילות‎
By elevating the spirit of man, God helps him attain understanding and
proper discernment between the differing methods used in the pursuit of the
‏שי‎ ultimate goal of mankind, and thus makes him victorious over error. We
have already pointed out the basic significance of ‏,נחל‎ “a stream”, “a cur~
rent” (Comm. to Gen. 9:22) from which the meaning of ‏בחלה‎ is derived
in the abstract form. In Rabbinic literature (B. ‏.א‎ 1142), 2m, in the form
v Sena in which it occurs there, ‏,נחיל של דבורים‎ denotes 8 swarm of bees that
has flown out from its hive, a “stream” or “current” of becs, as it were,
seeking a resting place, a colony, an “inheritance”, It would be easy here to
‏שי‎ interpret the word ‏נחילות‎ to denote the various “currents” and trends within
mankind, each seeking a resting place, a colony or “iaheritance” on earth.
-- ‘The meaning we have explained here would still remain the sane, Mankind
has flown from its native “hive and follows varying “currents” or trends in

‎| order to find the ultimate in happiness on earth,