go away and am here no more. a
is 301 something that is “vanity” in every human being. For no mortal
can do without God's discipline, and it is only by means of ‏יסורים‎ that man
will be led away from the worship of transitory things and raised up to such
- a high mental and spiritval plane that he will recognize and pay genuine
homage to that which is truly immortal.
V. 13, 14. ‏.שמעת וגר‎ The main theme of this psalm is ‏;תפלה‎ a
clarification of David's own judgment so that he may perceive the teuth
‏שי‎ before God (see Commentary to Gen. 20:8). Therefore the plea that the
Lord may give heed to David's spiritual Jabor of self-refinement is in-
dicated by the unusually broadened expression ‏מְעח‎ instead of ‏.שמפה‎
‎However, in addition to this ‏,תפלה‎ we have a plea ‏,שועה‎ and the excess of
Vv David's woe overflowed in tears. It is David's plea that God may leave
neither of his requests unanswered, His real home is not here below. It is
his task to prepare himself for the long journey awaiting him, the journey
Vv to his eternal home. For this purpose be needs mental and moral fortitude,
and in order to retain that, he must have physical stcength. Therefore
‘David implores the Lord to give him a moment's surcease from pain so that
‏שי‎ he may recover, lest he be unable to make use of the time he still has on
earth in order to fulfill his destiny. ‏:כלג .אבליגה‎ the etymology of ‏בלג‎
‎is uncertain, In those instances, such as in this verse, where it is employed
in the Hiphit form, in accordance with the context, it obviously denotes a
Vv strengthening. It may be in the intransitive as in this instance and in
Job 10:20 ‏,ואבליגה מעט‎ meaning “to recover,” or it may be in the transitive,
as in ‏המבליג שר על עז‎ (Amos 5:9), ‏מבליגיתי עלי יגון‎ (Jeremiah 8:18),
‏ש‎ “to strengthen another.” Perhaps it is related to ‏,פלג‎ “to part,” “to separate,”
and would thus denote a loosening, a freeing from inhibiting and oppressing
_ ‘bonds, even as the root ‏חלץ‎ indicates loosening, freeing and strengthening.
In Rabbinic Hiterature, ‏,מופלג‎ the Hiphil form of ‏,לג‎ is used to denote
-- something that is “distinguished,” “set apart” or “separated from all others.”
| And since ‏בלב‎ always indicates a “strengthening” to enable one to overcome
‘a foe, pain, etc. it may thus have some conrs*t*— “eh stn melanend wane ‏הל‎