be counted among those that go
down into the grave.
PSALM XXVIII
V. 1, ‏.לדוד‎ This chapter is the final psalm in the series beginning
with Psalm 24 that bears the superscription of ‏לדוד‎ and which expresses
5 some of the simple thoughts and emotions which David experienced during
7 his eventful life, Psalm 28 is a recapitulation of the motives expressed *
separately in Psalms 26 and 27. This psalm is a short song in praise of the
strength and power that can be derived from the awareness of an intimate
relationship with the Lord and His Law, a boon which proves its efficacy
‏ש‎ so gloriously and blissfully even in the midst of trouble and direst peril.
‘This feeling must naturally grow more intense within David's heart in view
of his position among his people.
‏וגל‎ pox. “L call unto Thee because Thou ast ‏,ה'‎ for upon Thee
v depends every moment of all our lives wherever we may be, and Thou art
ready at all times to open the gates of a better future to all. I address
myself to Thes also because Thou art ‏צורי‎ the sole foundation of my
‏ש‎ existence and the One Who shapes and guides my desires.” (See Commentary
to Dent. 32:4). ‏חרש ,פן תהשה ממני ,אל תחרש ממני‎ and ‏חשה‎ both mean
“to be silent." But since wn denotes deafness, ‏חרש‎ literally means “to
remain deaf” to a call to speak or to act, to “give no ear” to such a call.
‏ש‎ non, however, means, “not to give expression” to a thought or am emotion,
as in ‏לחשות ועת לדבר‎ ny (Eccl, 3:7), nem ‏החשיתי‎ (Psalm 39:3); “to stop”
3 motion; as in ‏ויחשו גליהם‎ (Psalm 107:29); ‘not to pay heed to an
‏שי‎ observation,” as in ‏ואתם מחשים‎ (Judges 18:9); ‏ואנחנו מחשים‎ (II Kings 7:9)
and elsewhere. It is related to mn, “to look” insofar as it denotes looking
at a situation objectively without, however, giving it more profound study.
(it is also phonetically related to non, which also means “to be silent,”
v “to remain quiet”). Phonetically related also to ‏,עשת‎ as regards the y—tt
sounds (Commentary to Exodus 12:11). It is the opposite of ‏,עשה‎ 1 =.
“to remain inactive.” Perhaps it also has some relationship to the word
— ‏חצה‎ “to fail to complete,” “to complete only half-way.” In the case of
‘both ‏תחרש‎ and ‏,תחשה‎ the word ‏ממני‎ denotes the concept of “remaining
distant from.” Thus the sense of the thought exmressed in this verse would