means “with God.” ‏.על א' ,לא' ,אל א"‎ All these expressions denote the mount-
2S, ing exaltation toward God which David attains on the wings of the inspiration
of song. According to the teachings of our sages, the exaltation derived
from song is the factor that characterizes ‏מזמור לדוד‎ as distinguished from
‘nara 779, (See Commentary to Psalm 24:1). “It is with God, that all my
hopes still rest, although He has decreed that such misfortunes should befall
Vv me now, My fortunes may seem low at present, and my good name maligned,
but 1 shall find my bappiness again ‘with Him,’ knowing and sensing that
T am very near to Him even now, It is from Him that I shall derive ‏,ישעי‎
‏ש‎ the feeling that I still live on, strong and unbowed, and ‏,כבודי‎ the awareness
of my own inalienable spiritual and morat worth.” According to the ac-
centuation, the phrase ‏צור עזי מחסי‎ forms one single concept; namely, “The
firmness of my fortitude which gives me confidence in the future rests solely
‏שי‎ with God. Men in their limited understanding think that in atl my misery,
I should feel that God has abandoned me. But, I know, that whatever moral
strength and fortitude I may have, I owe solely to the sufferings which God's
‏מדת הדוך ש‎ bas 0601008 for me in order to judge, try and discipline me, Such
fortitude and moral steadfastness cannot be attained by him who has never
known a moment's sorrow.”
‏.ער‎ 9. "nina, Therefore David, with these words, wishes to make
Vv Known to ail his people the conviction which bas been taught him in the
school of suffering. ny ‏,בכל‎ “Whatever life may bring, whatever misfortune
may befall you, 120 ‏שפכו‎ for you will never have a better friend in all your
‏שי‎ grief than God, the One Who ordained it for you.”
‏.אך וגל ,10 יר‎ God shall be our all, forevermore, unchangeably,
--- regardiess of whether He blesses us with joy or afflicts us with grief, But
mman is vain, even though he may occupy an exalted position and his favor
may hold much promise. He is mere deceit as regards the hopes which he
| bas stirred up within us. ‏.בני אדם בני איש‎ See Commentary to Psalm 49:3.
en ge ‏ב ב‎ 3