ones that seek your face, Jacob. ‏מבקשי פניך.‎ may be understood either as
in Yona ‏מבקשים טני‎ (Prov. 29:26), “they seek your favor, they seek instruc-
tion and guidance from you (Ci. Isaiah 2:3), or as “they seek that which
5 you, too, seek; they strive toward the same goal toward which your face
also is turned; they seek your guidance.” Verses 26—32 of Psatm 22 refer
to the wanderings of “Jacob,” the exiled nation, among the other nations
of the world. Therefore the name used here is ‏יעקב‎ instead of ‏.ישראל‎
‏שי‎ V.7. ‏.שאו וג‎ It is not only ‏הארץ‎ that is the Lord's. His world
order does not rule only in the sphere of immutable Nature. It is His wish
rather to found His kingdom in the sphere of unfettered human activity,
where His moral Law shal] help shape human affairs, ‏תכל וישבי בה‎ shall be
Vv the next sphere to which His reign on earth shall extend. Therefore the call
goes out to the ‏,שערים‎ the gates of the world of human society (this is the
literal meaning of ‏;שער‎ see Commentary to Gen. 19:1), to “be Lifted up.”
‏שי‎ ‘Let them be lifted ‏קט‎ for the ‏,מלך הכבוד‎ “the King of Glory,” to Whom alone
all honor is due, whose 7129 greatness is revealed by all the splendors of
heaven and earth (see Comm. to Ex, 16:7), Most men have searched for
His ways and His glory “beyond the gates of the life of the community of
Vv mankind,” in the sphere of “nature.” Therefore, now, “lift up your heads,
‘© gates” so that the King of Glory may enter at last into the sphere of the
life of human society and so that this life may freely make way—1Ko—for
‏ש‎ the rule of His Sovereignty.

‘At first, however, the gates of human society do not heed this call
to open out of their own free will, Therefore the call is repeated, this time
asking that ‏והנשאו וגו'‎ “the gates be lifted ‏"קט‎ by an external force, to become.

Vv ‏פתחי עולם‎ the gates of the future that is “hidden to the human eye and
brought about by God Himself, so that the ‏מלך הכבוד‎ may come in. There-

—— fore we have the question and answer as stated in Verse 8.
— V. 8 ‏-מי זה וגר‎ In what capacity, then, does the "1207 ‏מלך‎ 6
| His first bid for entry into the gates of the life of human society? It is as