It is difficult to reconcile these two interpretations. On one hand, ‏שכת‎

since it is related to yaw, yw, appears to denote the fauding of the wealth

of a subject or object as regards virtues, powers or wealth, but it also

indicates the appeasing of desire for greater wealth or abundance. The

2S, agitated sea with its waves seems about to break through its appointed
Timits and to flood its banks. But God commands the storm and the mighty

sea, as if “appeased,” withdraws {nto the zone originally assigned it. So,

too, states and nations attempt to transgress the limits set to human strength

‎and power and to attain a measure of might and tyranny that excceds these‏ ש
‎boundaries, But God sees it, and He makes them aware of how weak they‏

‎really are, until, at last, they will have leamed to be humble and to rejoice,

‎in quict contentment, in that which they can achieve within the limits set

‎Vv for them. Cf. Jeremiah 6:21, 23. Perhaps mavn in this verse and ‏תשבחם‎
‎in Psalm 89 would mean “to cause another person ‘to laud,” ‏,שאון ימים‎

‎expresses the concept of “tumult.” naw, lauding him, against whom.‏ שוא גליר

‎in tumult, therefore, is the exact opposite. And‏ קט ‎one had formerly risen‏ ש
‎(Prov. 29:11) could be interpreted to‏ כל רוחו יגגיא כסיל חכם באחוך ישבחנה

‎mean, “The fool gives forth all that is in his mind, but the wise man

‎restrains it, and only thus docs he make his intelligence praise-worthy and‏ ש
‎is employed to express‏ השביה ‎improve it.” Similarly, in Rabbinic literature‏

‎the concept of “improvement.” The "1 in pom occurs here, as it does in

‎many instances, as an expression of comparison, as, for example, in ‏מים‎

‏הלא און מלים תכחן ,25:25 ‎(Prov.‏ קרים על ‎wes‏ עיפה ושמועה טובה מארץ מרחק ‎Vv‏
‎which denotes‏ ,המה ‎TPM (Job 12:11) et al. poi, derived from‏ אוכל יטעם למר

‎an agitated, noisy motion, ordinarily means an agitated, tumultous multitude,

‎but may also indicate a movement bearing these characteristics, as in‏ שי
‎(Ezechiel 26:13). In this verse, it‏ המון שיריך ,)60:5 ‎(Isaiah‏ המון ‎‘pyp‏

‎— ‏פתהסות‎ either, “the multitude” in which case ‏שאון‎ would refer also to ‏:המון‎
‎Le. “God calms the roaring of the seas and, in the same manner, He also

‎caims the raging of the multitude of the peoples.” Or else ‏המון‎ may be

‎| an abstract term, meaning “the raging,” or "the tumult” and would bear the
a ‏הוה‎