have come only to wash away will
01 reach unto him.

5 to confess those sins which I had knowingly committed, ‘Thou hadst olready
removed the iniquity of my sin.” Any transgression, even if it was com-
mitted unintentionally, represents an iniquity for which atonement must
be made. It is the sin of levity; it is lack of eamest loyalty to one's duty.

‎For if we take our duty seriously we should measure every thought, every‏ שי

‎step, every word against the stera standard of whether or not it is in

‎conformity with the will of the Lord. If we are uot to be guilty of levity,

‎‘we must not view with indifference the question of whether or not our

‎Vv dealings are lawful in the eyes of the Lord, Cf. ‏ומפשעיהם לכל הטאתם‎

‎(Commentary to Lev. 16:16). Once we know and admit the wrong we

‎have done and acknowledge the iniquity inherent in the sin of levity, our

‎Vv sense of duty will come into its own once more and, by thus assuming the
proper attitude once again, we shall have atoned for ‏חטאת‎ py.

‎V.6. = ‏.על זאת וגו"‎ As we have already explained in our Commentary

‎means “to acknowledge and imbue oneself with the‏ התפלל ,20:8 ‎to Gen,‏ שי

‎Knowledge of the truth and thus to acquire the proper insight concerning

‎one’s self and all of one’s relationships.” For the root ‏פלל‎ means “to judge,

‎to pass judgement.” This literal meaning comes to the fore quite particularly

‎Vv in this instance. The man who truly serves God regards all material suffering

‎only as a means sent him to awaken the right spiritual life within his soul,

‎‘Therefore, let such ‏ב‎ man, whenever he senses that suffering is about to

‎descend upon bim, take the opportunity thus afforded him to evaluate‏ ש

‎himself. Let him strive to acquire the proper insight and judgment con-

‎0 cerning himself, his past, his present, and the achievements which the Lord
will expect of him in the future. This is exactly what our sages taught

‎—_ Vugna ‏רואה אדם שיסורין באין עליו יפשפש‎ OX (Berachoth 5a). ‏שטף‎ is “to

‎| wash ‏",עמ‎ and also “to rinse away”; that fs, to remove an impurity or