25, Ae assumes at birth. He will rejoice, too, in the traditions that are is portion
5 and which are the symbols of bis special calling on earth, He will 63 ‏סק‎

none of the. ‏עצבות‎ that is the lot of thoso who believe that their fate is deter- |

mined for them by “other powers”. God will give him the strength and ability

to discharge whatever tasks may come his way, and the consciousness of

‎denotes that harmonious‏ שפר ‎having done one's duty brings joy and bliss.‏ שי
‎shaping of a whole in all its parts which is the essence of all beauty. (CE.‏

‎Gen, 49:21).
‏ער‎ 7. av Tax, ‏,אשר יענני‎ “Who did not 15% me continue in error.”

‎v ‏אף לילות‎ 1 bless Him even for the dark days, ia which ‏כליעתי‎ cme, We = |
have already stated in our Commentary to Psalm 7, Verse 11, that ‏כליות‎
‎denote the organs of physical desire. As such, the Kidneys are closely retated |

‎to those desires which David in his error thought that only powers other‏ ש
‎than God could satisfy. In the end, however, David realized that he who‏
‎atrives for goods and pleasures without looking to God for the fulfillment of‏
‎these wishes will come to know only the pala of renunciation. These times‏

‎Vv of renunciation were the “nights” during which the ‏,כלוות‎ his unfulfilled
desires, led David back to the right path to trus understanding of God's
power,

‏שה ‎to be eveo; My is to smooth out, to even out.‏ שה .שויתי וגו .8 ךר ש
‎gran is to level an expanse of soil, to remove all unevennesses from it (Isaiah‏
‎There are those who Tabor under the delusion that God most be‏ .)28:25

‎conceived of as Someone Who towers far above earthly affairs and Who‏ ש
‎thinks all things terrestrial to be far below Him. “But as for me," says David,‏

‎-- “my conception of Him is very different, I have pereeived His presence on
the level of my own earthly existence; I no longer seck Him in the heights but

‎1 have set Him before my eyes in everything I do on earth. Nothing bere

‎| ‘below is so small or insignificant that God would be indifferent ta it. Whatever