009 ‏מו ו 7 ---. ה‎
tects the apple of the eye; hide ‏לפ מסתויני:‎
me in the shelter of Thy wings.
at night merely to make sure that she is still with him and ceases to be afraid
as soon as she answers his cry, so ‏,קראתיך °3 תענני‎ merely so that Thow
wouldst answer me.” It is "a yow, ‏,אמרתי ,הט וגו‎ not “hear my call for
help”, but “hear the expression of the thoughts that stirred in my mind during

5 the dark days of my sufloring which was sent me to try me out”,

7 V. 7, ‏.הפלת וגו"‎ Mbp, related to ‏,פלא‎ noo, is the marked prominence
of one fact above all others. See Commentary to Lev. 22:21,

There is one other service rendered by the suffering which Thou

Yisitest upon those capable of improvement so that they may be brought

Vv closer to moral perfection, Beyond their beneficial effect upon those directly

concerned, such trials clearly demonstrate God’s loving kindness in its

steengthening, saving and supporting power, For the mercies of the Lord

‎can be plainly seen in the sublime strength which the sufferer derives from‏ ש

‎God's presence during his time of pain, and in the Divine protection which

‎upbolds the righteous man and which will not allow him to succumb to the

‎blows of fate which he must sustain, ‏.ממתקוממים בימינך‎ There is a conflict

‎but even‏ ,צדיקים ‎and those of the‏ פריצים ‎not only between the interests of the‏ ש

‎their tenets are diametrically opposed to one another. Every righteous man

‎who is upheld by his confident trust in God is living evidence of the Divine

‎Vv nature of the moral law which he obeys and of the help and protection which

‎God grants him. He is living proof of the ‏ה'‎ pa», the right hand of the Lord,

‎which gave us the Law and which also aids us in the fulfillment of His will

‎(Deut. 33:2, Exod. 15:6). Every such man who walks upright in his faith

‎v is ₪ living symbol of reproach to the py. For the former proclaims to the

‎lawbreaker a principle which the latter denies. ‘The wicked man is ready

‎to fight in order to refute the validity of the truths cherished by the righteous,

‎which‏ ,ימינך ‎When he combats the righteous man, he also wages war upon‏ שי
‎reveals itself to good and wicked alike,‏

‎_ 3 8. osm. ‏,אישון‎ derived from ‏ישן‎ (as ‏אגרף‎ is derived from

‎= a), is “old”, “dull”, “black”, “dark”, or “that which is dark.” Therefore
‏אישון לילת‎ is the “darkness of night” and py ‏אישון‎ is “the black part of the

‎| eye", the “apple of the eye”. py ‏בת‎ is most probably synonymous with naa