its existence as a national entity only to God, the sole ruler of its destinies,
All “progress to this universal goal of mankind” shall belong to that nation
2S, which, as oy, subordinates the entire constitution of its individual, family
and national life to the rule and guidance of God’s will in such a manner
that He shall deem it worthy of being chosen by Him once more from among
the rest of mankind, as His regained “inheritance.”
‏שי‎ V. 13. ‏.משמים הביט וג"‎ Verses 13 to 22 now relate this fact of
Israel's chosenhood. ‏.משמים‎  ,41 the time of Israel’s election, the presence
of the Lord was far away from the carth, as it were; the Lord looked down
from afar—that is the essential meaning of ‏נמג--הביט‎ looked over all those
v begotten by Adam; He beheld mankind such as it was at that time.
‏שבתו 31‘ ,14 יר‎ pene, There was no throne, no sanctuary, 10
place of worship or thanksgiving for Him on earth. Men found no room
‏ש‎ within the confines of the earth for His rule; their motto was “Heaven is
the Lord's and the earth is ours.” ‏שבתו‎ pone. From this extra-terrestrial
retreat, as it were, the Lord locked down with the most intent and tender
‏שי‎ ‘concern upon all those who had taken posscssion of the earth and who
founded their lives and ambitions upon the carth, without taking His will
into account in their plans. ‏השגית‎ denotes a viewing with afl the attention
concentrated upon one object. (Sce Commentary to Gen, 8:1).
4 V. 15. ‏.היצר יחד וגו‎ The Lord, with His intent look upon the
“sons of men," measures the worth of their deeds by the criterion of the
Purpose for which man was created. Here we find stress put upon one
‏ש‎ important factor of this purpose; that Is, the Lord has fashioned the hearts
of men ‏יחל‎ “for one another,” for a life together in which men support, aid
--- and encourage one another, Self-love, selfishness and the resulting quest for
— self-preservation and self-aggrandizement—these constitute the all-powerful
| drive that motivates all living things, down to the most minute cell; that is,
all living things save man, The “humanity” that distinguishes man from