0 WHO Speak Peace WILD ‏אשמ‎ NN  nbe ete
neighbors but harbor evil within 203372 ‏ה‎
‎their hearts,
be as follows: “O Thou, upon Whom alone all the future depends, in Whom

"9 1 seek all the support of my life and the*goal of my desires, do not with-
draw from me without bearing my eryt 11 I were not to call upon Thee, and
if Thou, too, wert to 100% at my sad state without taking an interest or with-
‘out concerning Thyself with it, then my life would have no more meaning and
I would be as one whose path on this earth is nothing but a steady progress

Vv toward the grave.” ‏משל‎ see Commentary to Gen. 4:7.
V. 2. "a you, ‏שא יד .בנשאי ירי וגו"‎ usually means “to swear,”
as in ‏אשר נשאתי את ידי‎ (Ex. 6:8) and elsewhere. The expression denotes
‏שי‎ the employment of the hand for a definite purpose, as an instrument for
action, as in taking an oath, The concept of ₪ plea is ordinarily rather
expressed by the phrase ‏,נשא כפים‎ denoting the upward stretching of the
hand that usually grasps an object but is now empty—a portrayal of dire
Vv need for help. In this verse, ‏בנשאי ידי‎ would thus alo mean, “When I
pledge loyalty to the Abode of Thy Word in Thy Sanctuary.” If, however,
the phrase ‏בנשאר ידי‎ is to be interpreted as symbolizing prayer [much like
Vv ‏כפים‎ xv2], thea the thought would be, “When I lift up my powerless bands
to the Abode of Thy Word in Thy Sanctuary, and await strength and energy
from there.” At any rate, the idea expressed here is that David expects
‏ש‎ God to help him only because he, David, has given his full devotion to the
Divine Law and therefore feels that such aid will be forthcoming. In like
manner, his son Solomon taught us how to tur our eyes and our souls
to the Sanctuary of the Law when we pray to God, ‏והתפללו אל המקום הזה‎
‏שי‎ )1 Kings 8:35); ‏מקום הזה‎ is ‏קרשך‎ vat.
‘V, 3, ‏,אל תמשכני‎ as in ‏אדם אמשכם‎ wana (Hosea 11:14(, ‏משך‎
‏אבירים בכחו‎ (Job 24:22), “to draw someone unto oneself’ or “to draw

a someone nigh to his destiny.” David states here, “I seck my future solely
in the paths of Thy Law, O Lord. Therefore do not bring me nearer to Thee

| of to my destiny in the same manner as Thou wouldst proceed when dealing