ee eee en eee een --- eee eee eee ee ee ee ae
5 and of ‏.מות‎ But those who have taken a straight path through life, without
deviation, to the goals that were set for them by their Creator, because they
are ‏ישרים‎ shall overcome both death and the grave, as indeed, they have
already overcome them by virtue of the lives they have 198. “yap. Death
to the wicked is the night of life's day, while, for the new», it symbolizes
‏שי‎ the dawa of 8 new morning, om, “Tx, the symbol of that which is firm
and unchangeable, is used here to portray the spirit of man which is not
doomed to decay, ‏בלה‎ in the Piel form, means “to outlast" something, as
in ‏בחירי‎ soy ‏מעשי ידיהם‎ (Isaiah 65:22), Hence the thought conveyed by
Vv Verse 15 is as follows, “While the others are doomed to fall victim to death
and to the grave, those who have lived without deviating from the path
of daty shall have overcome both death and the grave. For them their phys-
‏שי‎ ical demise merely marks the dawn of a new day. They are destined to live
beyond the graye so that it shall not be a permanent dwelling place for
them.” ‏מזכול לד‎ is tantamount to ‏לד‎ bot rma, I believe that I have heard
this interpretation of ‏מזבול לו‎ from my teacher, Rabbi Bernays ‏.נ"ע‎ on
Vv is ‏נכתיב‎ OM, ‏ציר‎ “a messenger.” Our personality, Mx can partake of
eternal immortality only if it regards itself as ‏ציר‎ the messenger of a Higher
Being, an instrument sent down to earth by God in order to do His will
‏שי‎ there, It is immaterial to the ‏ציר‎ on carth what position and what material
powers and possessions his Heavenly Dispatcher assigns to him for the
fulfillment of his task in the world. Likewise, he leaves the determination
of his social position, power and wealth to Him Who sent him on his
Vv earthly errand. His sole concern is his loyalty in discharging the task which

.הכל בידי שמים חוץ מיראת שמים ‎he bas been assigned,‏
‎(Gen, 5:24).‏ כי לקח אותו אלקי" ‎CE.‏ ,כי יקחני ‎‘V. 16. i‏

--- V. 17, 18.  'וגו ‏.אל תירא‎ See Verse 6. The foregoing has clearly
| shown us what the real value and goal of life is, Therefore, when you