cried, and the Lord heard, and sy ‏צחתם‎
‎delivered them out of all their eee
troubles.

19) For the Lord is near to ‏את"‎ sbmawhb min ‏קרוב‎ a9
those that are of a broken heart, = ** yeh TT
and He saves such as are of a con- ‏ואת‎ Ste
trite spirit. os

- 20) Many, too, are the ills of ‏צַבִּיק וּמִבְלֶם‎ ni] ni, ₪
a righteous man, but the Lord ‏יחות:‎ aby
delivers him out of them all, ‏הפפ"‎

21) He keeps all of his bones, ning ‏שמר בּליעצְמתִיו תת‎ (2

Vv not even one of them is broken. ee ‏לי‎
‎with all that is necessary for their welfare, even if they have not specifically

Vv asked God for it, and ‏ואזניר‎ it will be near them when, at critical moments
in their lives, they tum to Him in praycr. Conversely, ‏פנר ה‎ all of God's
Sovereignty is directed against the doers of evil, denying every hope for

‎future existence not only to the wicked themselves but even to their‏ שי
‎remembrance upon earth,‏

‎V. 18, 19. ‏וגו"‎ ys. Even ‏,עושי רע‎ once they were overcome by

‎affliction threatening to engulf them, have been known to experience a‏ ש
‎change of heart and turn to God again. When this came to pass, the Lord‏
‎heard even them, for He is close to anyone who breaks the obstinacy of‏
‎his own heart and who humbly bows his proud spirit.‏

‎Vv ‏ער‎ 20, 21. mma, Of course the fact that the righteous man has .
‘been promised “life” and “good things,” docs not mean that all of his days
will be free from suffering and filled only with that which men call happiness.

‎must expect a great many troubles and calamities.‏ צדיק ‎On the contrary, the‏ ש
‎This must be s0 of necessity because of the human and social conditions‏

‎— in the midst of which he lives, and in which prs, that which is rightcous and
ethical, can hardly be said to reign supreme. Morcover, it is part of the task

‎--- of the ‏צדיק‎ in his loyalty to duty to prove that he is sufficiently strong, even
| in the midst of calamity, “to do good and to desist from evil,” even if doing

‎pood demands creat 520118666 and evil 566777 577777 ‏ליד‎ ee tn