- ‏ה 8 8 חאה כ ץצ ומר ה וצר ודוד‎ ee
that ‏פמסקת‎ and blooms for the righteous even here below and which he
cannot disturb even by the suffeting he might cause them. The righteous
satisfy themselves with the abundance of the delights which they obtain
from the “house” of the Lord by means of the Divine Law that reposes

v there and from the sanctification of life which they learn and attain there.
‘a ‏עדניך‎ bmn. And the Lord endows each one of them personally with
His special pleasures which can be sensed and enjoyed only by the spirit,

‎For the source of life and enlightenment can be found only‏ .כי עמך וגה שי
‎with God Himself. This Divine presence, giving life and light, will preserve‏
‎THA.‏ נראה ‎mpts—works of loving-kindness. TX‏ ומשפס ‎men through its‏
‎Light is indeed available to man—it is attainable everywhere and ia each‏

‎v and every situation that life may bring, We will be able to see that light
only if we seek enlightenment from God and if He grants it to us. ‏אזר‎
‏זרוע לצדיק‎ (Psalm 97:11). Without it, we would wander in darkness.

‎Vv V. 11. ‏.משך חסדך‎ Just as ‏תוחלת ממשכה‎ (Prov. 13:12) denotes the
Jong delay in the fulfillment of an expectation, so ‏משך‎ is generally used
to express the prolonged deferment of the fulfillment of a promise or a

‏כי אני ה' אדבר את אשר אדבר 737 ויעשה ‎stipulation, ete. Thus we read‏ ש
‎(Ezech. 12:28). Here,‏ לא תמשך ‎Ny‏ כל דברי ,}12:25 ‎(Ezech,‏ לא תמשך ‎ny‏
‎means “Defer Thy loving-kindness to those who know‏ משך חסדך לידפיך ‎too,‏
‎Thee.” Do not give them the full outpouring of Thy loving-kindness‏

‎Vv speedily or at this very moment. An abundance of good fortune is not
always an unmixed blessing. However it is only ‏יודעיך‎ “those who know
‘Thee” that will be able to abide this lengthy delay in the coming of the

‎05 Prosperity for which they yearn, They will understand that this deferment
is merely a means for educating them to attain greater moral perfection

‎| while the ‏,רשעים‎ who know nothing of God and His ways will only be moved