ee we ee pq ac
He has caused the thoughts of the ape ‏מלְלכת‎
‎mations to be of no effect,
treasure chambers made of 010065." Water, and everything else in nature
as well, develop in accordance with the existing natural law laid down by
God as Jong as, and in such manner as His will requires such development
‏ש‎ and such continued existence.

V. 8 ‏מה' וגל‎ wy, Therefore ‏;כל הארץ‎ that is, all those who know
that their existence and their welfare is dependent upon the earth and its
evolution, should fear the Lord. For it is He that controls the earth and

Vv its course; it is He that not only laid down the law governing the physical
development of nature but also gave His moral Law to guide the free moral
development of man. ‏,כל ישבי תבל‎ all those who have their place in the

‎world of man in which buman selfishness and caprice, rather than God's‏ שי
‎should stand back in awe‏ ממנר ינור )24:1 ‎Law, reign supreme (of. Psalm‏
‎‘before Him, Literally it means they should know that they have “no ground‏

‎upon which to stand” before Him, (See Commentary to Gen. 12:14—19),‏ ש

‎V.9. ‏.כי הוא וגל‎ For all the miraculous acts of God in connection
with the Exodus from Egypt, and particularly the ‏קריקת ים סוף‎ stressed in
Verse 7, proved that He, Who “spoke and it was,” “also commanded and

‎Vv it stood still.” His will rules the world which He Himself has called into
being. One mere signal from Him will suffice to bring to a standstill all that
world order which He Himself had instituted and upon the stability of which

‎Vv men base alt their hopes and plans, ‏ויעמד‎ as in ‏מלדת‎ muy ‏כי‎ (Gen. 30:9),
‏השמש וירח עמד‎ HM (Joshua 10:13), ‏ואל תעמד בכל הככר‎ (Gen. 19:17),

‎--- ‘Toy’ ‏ויך שלש פעמים‎ (Kings JI, 13:18) and elsewhere in the Scriptures.
a ‏יר‎ 10. ‘a1 ‏עצת גוים .ה' הפיר‎ is the counsel of the nations, devised
‘by one against the other. ‏מחשבות עמים‎ are the thoughts which motivate the
| acts of men against one another in their mutual domestic relationships. Both