‘Upon the strengthening power of 0 “35 /
day's dawning. A Psalm of David. Te eR
‏אש‎
‎ij
‎;
‎PSALM XXIL
‏שר‎ 1. nbs, as in Verse 20. ‏אילותי‎ is “my strength.” nex, active
mood, Piel form, means “strengthening,” “invigoration.” cmon, Ho is
the period when things are intermingled (from ‏(לולאה ,לול‎ when the mind
cannot distinguish between them. “73, however, is the time when it becomes
possible once more for the eye to discern ‏לא יבקר בין טוב לרע)‎ Lev, 27:33),
5, ‏שחר‎ is the time of day's dawning, the time of “searching” ‏שחר טוב)‎ Prov.
- 11:27) at which objects, though not as yet clearly distinguishable from one
another, can already be recognized if an effort is made to “search” for
them. (See Commentary to Gen. 19:1 and 32:25). Psalm 22 sings of the
renewed vigor which a man, even though he is still surrounded by darkness,
‏שי‎ may derive from the knowledge that morning cannot be far away. This
psalm gives expression 40 the thoughts and emotions that come to Israel in
the midst of the dark night of its exile, The night of suffering enshrouds
‏ש‎ Israel in the deepest blackness of threatening destraction (Verses 7---17(-
Israel believes that the Lord has forsaken it, (Verses 1—3), but yet it
knows, somehow, that its relationship with Him has not been completely
severed (Verse 4). Just as Israel remembers the aid which God had always
v given to its fathers in times of trouble (Verses 5, 6), 50, even while sur-
rounded by its foes, Israel nurtures the memory of that past Divine support
which always upheld it in all its fights (Verse 18). ‘Thus Israel derives
‏שי‎ strength, and the confidence that the Lord will send His help once again.
This conviction helps Istael find consolation even in the face of crushing
Josses (Verses 1922), Then (as described in Verses 2332) Israel
‏ש‎ delights in the gladdening realization that it is this very experience of God's
hand amidst its sufferings that has enabted it to proclaim God's might unto
all its future generations as well as unto all the rest of mankind, Only when
mankind is taught to worship God's Sovereignty, will it find happiness
4 on this earth. Men will be able to enjoy life at its fullest only if they sub-
ordinate themselves to the will of the Lord, "The “nv is this intimation of the
bright feture that will emerge from out of the night of Israel's exile. It is
-- the promising dawn which sends forth the first rays of sunlight heralding a
| new day for the future of Israel together with all the rest of the nations,