which showd now be spread among 811 ihe nations of the world, In ‏-תסם‎
‎Jewish quarters the relationship between God and man is thought of 23
gloomy and solemn. Therefore noa-Jews imagine that a way of life such
aS OUur own, permeated throughout with the impress of service to God,
mist be a joyless, stunted existence. They cannot conceive that the spring
of the purest joy of life, serene and unclouded, flows forth from the lofty,
granite rocks of devoted homage to God and that, as a matter of fact, grief
5, ‘or sadaess are never permitted to cross the threshold of the Sanctuary of the
0 Lord, Therefore Israel calls out to the other nations, “At this place you
shall learn to do true homage to God which, though profoundly solemn,

goes hand in hand with the 1085051 emotion of pure joy.”
V. 3. ‏.בי ה' וג‎ This solemnity coupled with joy, and this exalta-
‏ש‎ tion combined with earnest devotion is an emotion that can be found im-
bedded only in the soil of Judaism, Its roots lie in the basic unitary Jewish
conception of God, which holds that ‏.ה" עליון נורא‎ The happy past of Israel
‏שי‎ and the promise of its glorious future will show to the nations that God is
One Who generously lavishes love, 11/5 and blessings upon all, Who rejoices
in the joy of His creatures, Whose desire it is that His creatures grow and
flourish, and Who is the epitome of ‏הרהמים‎ mp. At the same time, however,
v the Lord is also ‏נעליון נורא‎ a ruler Who is great and greatly to be feared
even as He proves to be near us in His loving-kindness, and that He is
‏מדת ה' הרחמים‎ even as He ₪ ‏עליון‎ and x1. He who desires to attain God's
Vv Toving nearness must subordinate all his life and his endeavors in true
obedience to Him, Whom he must worship as the Supreme Being. By so
submitting to the Lord, he will attain the blessed nearness of God for even
the most fleeting breath of his life and the smallest beginning of his
‏ש‎ endeavors, This is the secret of the Jewish way, the fe of duty rooted in
the soil of the Law of the Lord. In this way of life, and in this way of life
only, shail we find both the solemnity and the joy of living springing forth

וט ‎from one and the same‏ ש

‎even as He is the King of Israel,‏ ,ה' עליון נורא ‎and this‏ מלך בדול וג
‎He is also King over all the earth. It is as such that He demands recognition‏ ---
‎and homage throughout the earth, so that His blessings may spread over all‏
‎In contrast‏ ,מלך גדול ‎the world even as they were lavished upon Israel,‏ ---7
‎to pagan ideology, to whose adherents the power of its deities was‏ |