‎Commentaries to Sanhedrin 90a—‏ 666--ועמך כלם צדיקים לעולם יירשו ארץ
‎included also immortality in the world to come, which can be attained‏
‎through a life of honesty and devotion to duty here below. Hence im-‏
‎mortality would then also be the permanent personal acquisition which‏
‎can secure for himself by means of his conduct on earth. It is‏ צדיק ‎every‏
‎would denote‏ כרת ‎bis “earthly acquisition.” The word‏ ,ירושת ארץ ‎indeed his‏
‎the exact opposite of both these forms of immortality (see Commentary to‏
‎3S, Gen. 17:14 and Lev. 20:20). Thus the thought expressed in Verse 22‏
‎those who are blessed by the Lord shall‏ ,מברכיר' ‎would be as follows:‏
‎but those‏ מקלליו ‎inherit immortality, both in this world and in the next;‏
‎whom He bas cursed have forfeited both,” The scantier the earthly fortune‏
‎receives during his natural life, the richer shall be his‏ צדיק ‎which the‏
‎Vv blessed harvest in the eternal future, both in this world and in the next.‏
‎For he was made all the more pure and selfless through the pain which he‏
‎on the other‏ ,רשע ‎had to suffer during his earthly existence. As for the‏
‎hand, the richer the portion he has received on earth in terms of worldly‏ שי
‎goods and pleasures, the 1055 shall be his share in the world to come, For‏
‎he has already reaped on earth the greater part of the small reward due‏
‎him for whatever little good he may have done there. The wicked man‏
‎Vv never knew how to attain the eternal blessing of that future which lies far‏
‎beyond the earthly present; it was never even within his ken. God rewards‏
‎everyone for the good he does by guiding him in the formulation of his‏
‎as it is said in Deut. 7:11 where‏ אל פניר ישלם 19 ‎attitudes and aspirations,‏ שי
‎this way of God's Sovereignty has already been indicated (see Commentary‏
‎ibid. and Exod. 34:7),‏
‎is by‏ דשע ‎This contrast between prix and‏ .סה' ונר ,24 ,23 יר שי
‎no means an arbitrary one. The use to which man puts the Iife which the‏
‎Lord has granted him, and the goals toward which his steps ate directed‏
‎are not matters of indifference. For the Lord Himself has prescribed the‏
‎v direction which the steps of men should take—thus the word used here‏
‎as used with reference to the “arrow,” Psalm 11:2, 21:13. What‏ ,כונך ‎is‏
‎man should desire is not a path which he himself has devised but solely‏
‎the one path set him by the Lord. Even if such a man should stumble‏ —
‎and fall on the road which leads to God, he will still never be cast down‏
‎entirely, for the Lord will hold his hand, or rather. the Lord will uphold‏