PSALM LXIV

1) To Him Who grants victory, Yq “Wm nha WD
a Psalm of David. /

2( Hear my voice, O God, ‏בשי‎ YP ‏פע לי‎ 5
while I pray, preserve my life from on en ‏חד א%ב‎
the fear of my foes. 2D SN ER

2S, ‏.והמלך ונר .12 .ףר‎ “But as for Saul, the king, let him rejoice in
God, and let everyone glory who acknowledges Saul’s majesty.” This
acknowledgement is expressed here by ‏.נשבע בר‎ The homage which David
pays to his king is so sincere and undoubted that he makes promises “upon
the life of the king,” even as Joseph made protestations ‏.חי פרעה‎ David
Vv always makes a sharp distinction between Saul, whose hostility was to be
attributed to his state of melancholia, and Saul’s people, who exploited their
master’s mental illness in order to incite him against David. David does
‏שי‎ not bear a grudge against Saul and those who are sincerely loyal to him,
He wishes them no il, "31 ‏,כי יסכר‎ may be the explanation for the preceding
‏ניתהלל וגל‎ 56. “let all those who pay homage to Saul in sincerity exult
in this their loyalty, for the opposite would be a breach of faith, the ‘mouth’
‏ש‎ of which would have to fall silent.” Or it may be that ‏דוברי שקר‎ refers to
those who incite Saul’s hostility by slander against David. David wishes
no ill to Saul and his followers. His only prayer is that the deceitful slander-
‏שי‎ ers who surround Saul and exploit his iltness for their own selfish ends may
fall silent.
‏שי‎ PSALM LXIV
‏בר‎ 1. This psalm refers to the enemies of David who sucround
Senl and who, by slanderous calumny, fan Saul's hatred for David to open
‏ש‎ hostility. Wo believe that reference was made to these same focs in the
‏זפ‎ verse of Psalm 63, Psalm 64 portrays the impudence of the word of
— slander in all its dangerous connotations, but also proclaims the confidence
that all slanderers wilt eventually perish by their own calumny.
‏,ער‎ 2, ‘ur sav, ‏שית‎ (see Commentary to Gen. 24:63) denotes
| the inner growth of mind and spirit, ‏קולי בשיח‎ “when 1 give expression to