active spintual force instead 01 the person umplementing the lore, We
find instances of similar substitution in Psalm 109:4 where we have
‏ואני תפלה‎ instead of ‏,ואני מתפלל‎ and in Psalm 20:7, where it is said
‏אגי שלום‎ instead of phy ‏.אנר‎ In both these cases the use of the noun rather
than the verb form shows that prayer or love of peace are not bound to a
“ specific time or place, but should imbue the entire personality of the man
who holds them dear. “I am prayer”; “I am peace.” My entire personality
is at prayer; my whole being is dedicated to peace. This same thought is
also expressed in ‏ויהי ידיר אמונה‎ (Exod. 17:12). Here, ia Psalm 19, the
expression ‏יראת ה'‎ designates that human being who becomes ‏טהור‎ because
his total personality is cousecrated to ‏יראה‎ and who attains ‏טהרה‎ because he
is thoroughly imbued with ‏ה"‎ nit, It may even be that ‏יראת ה'‎ in this
instance 15 not a noun at all, but an adjective, a feminine form stat. constr.,
as found in ‏אשה יראת ה'‎ (Prov, 31:30), and that it would thus denote a
person cleansed by the fear of God, a soul that bas become pure because
3 it fears the Lord, such as ‏.גפש יראת ה' טהורה‎
‏.משפטי וגו"‎ The role of the ‏משפטים‎ in communal co-existence is
the same as the function of the opin in the life of the individual person.
The ‏הוקים‎ serve as guides in the individual life of each man, They point
out to him the Divinely-set norms within which all his aspirations, even his
v physical desires, may be fulfilled and stil remain within the bounds of
purity. Any act transgressing these God-given statutes will degrade man to
the level of ‏טמאה‎ at which the human being loses his morally pure freedom
‏שי‎ and succumbs to the yoke of his unbridled passions. The ‏משפטים‎ are the
Iaws which provide this same guidance for society as a whole. mnb, moral
purity, is the principle that should rule individual Efe. pz, justice, which
is realized by ‏(משפם‎ is the cardinal tenet that showld govern society, We
v are told that the ‏משפטי ה'‎ are nox, “truth.” They emanate from the objective
truth inherent in all things and persons, and serve as the expression of that
truth, prt, “justice,” after all, is nothing else but the reciprocal claim
‏שי‎ inherent in the truth of persons and things. ‘The word ‏צדק‎ itself is phonetic
ally related to pry, “to be silent" and to ‏שדך‎ which is the Chaldean for
“to satisfy” (see Commentary to Genesis 15:6). Through the realization
‏ש‎ of ‏פדק‎ all things will obtain their rightful due in accordance with the truth
of their nature and their behavior, ‏צדק‎ “remains silent”; it has nothing to
say concerning its portion; it may raise no claims or objection regarding its
just deserts. Therefore the realization of ‏צדק‎ is in wow, which is phonetically
‏ש‎ telated to ‏נשפת‎ "to put something in its place,” “to arrange.” ‏משפט‎ is the
arrangement or order of persons and things in accordance with the standard
of pix, It is through ‏משפט‎ that everything and everyone attains that place
— and position which is rightfully due to it or to him, (See Commentary to
| Gon. 2:2, 15:6).