06 atraid, Out they will laugh at '4%[ Med 0 UN ee

A 9) “Behold the man who did phe oben aig man @
not Iet God be the source of his a0 Wage se ee deat
strength, He trusted in the abund- 32 17% TR Ney, yp
ance of his wealth; let him be ci?
strong, then, by means of what
he has devised.”

, ‏במתתי‎
‏יי‎ UAL THER ER CTIA
8, of God forever, ‏של עַד:‎
112 Iwill yet give Thee thanks ‏עשי אק‎ “pnb Fy ‏גו‎
‎forever because Thow hast done 7 + ‏גנד הסוחה;‎ SED ‏שמ‎
‎it, and I will wait upon Thy Name ue .

v as it is good unto Thy devoted
ones.

‎The sight of a man who, despite erudition in‏ .ירא וגר .9 ,8 יצ ש
‎the Jaw, has degenerated to such a low moral level and therefore also sunk‏
‎so low in his social position, will 6Il any righteous man with dread lest he‏

‎himself might one day come to deviate from the right path. But then the‏ שי
‎could not protect Doeg from error‏ תורה ‎righteous will remember that the‏
‎because, from the very beginning, he had been evil and filled with ungodly‏
‎arrogance. amin, seo Psatm 0.‏

‎v - V. 10. ‏מאני וגל‎ “As for me,” says David, “even though I now
have no abode on earth, I still have my inalienable rights in the House of
God, and even though 1 have no ‏שולהן‎ of my own and must depend upon

‎the good will of others for my bread, my lot still holds renewed hope and‏ שי
‎in the Sanctuary.”‏ מגורת ‎promise like the evergreen branches of light, the‏
‎(See Commentary to Exod. 25:39, Zechariah 4:2, 3). “Men cannot‏
‎deprive me of my spirit which flowers upward to the Lord, and, unlike‏

‎Vv Doeg, who puts his trust in his wealth, I shall trust in the mercy of the
Lord, not only now that I am forsaken, but throughout all the days to come.”

‎“I am sure that even my present affliction will‏ -אודך וג" .11 .ער

‎--- all be for the best, and I will yet have eause to thank ‘Thee forever for having
| stricken me with it,” says David. “And, even as Thy Name ‏(מדת הרחמים) ה'‎

‎describes Thee as ‘He Who is good forevermore? T trust that T will see it