of man, rooted ‏מו‎ Uns concept, shall be upheld above all human error. in the
face of that dignity and that calling, every social system of ‏אוריב ומתנקט‎ shall
5 ultimately vanish from the earth,
‏איב‎ (related to ‏,עקב‎ “to harm someone underhandedly” and to 229,
used in Rabbinic literature to express the idea of “hindering") is that enmity
which is bent upon impeding the welfare of others and which sees an obstacle
to its own ends in the well-being of other men.

Vv ‘pans. ‏נקם.‎ means to defend a right that has been violated. The ‏מתנקם‎
‎will defend the right only if he betieves that bis own interests have been
endangered.

‎“created, preserved and‏ ,שמיך .כי אראה וגו' מה אנוש ‎1M‏ .5--4 .ער

‎4 guided by Thee.” ‏.ומעשה אצבעתיך‎ nya, and not ‏.מעשי‎ They are one uniform
work despite their diversity. It is ‏,אצבעתיך‎ and not ‏ידיך נידיך‎ would rather
indicate omnipotence, while ‏אצבעתיך‎ points to creative wisdom, proven in its

‎Vv every work and every detail, thus, the art of creation. Every single star is a
separate ‏,אצבע אלקים‎ a special, individual sphere in the universe. Thus, in
Psalm 147:4, we have ‏,מוגה מספך לכוכבים לכלם שמות יקרא‎ The stars have been

‎counted by God and each has been 31106 by a special name; each has received‏ ש
שאו מרום עיניכם 40:26 ‎ils own individual shape, Thus we also read, in Isaiah‏
‎The psalm is uttered‏ .וראו מי ברא אלה המוציא במספר צבאם לכלם בשם יקרא וגול
‎at the sight of the starry sky at night. By day, man, blinded by sunlight, sees‏

‎Vv only earth, and the heavens arched over it, supplying the earth below with
light, warmth and moisture. It is only at night, when earth has receded into
the shadows and the sky above it becomes visible with its starry hosts of

‎mere speck in the universe and man‏ ה ‎shining worlds that the earth shrinks to‏ שי
‎Cf. Ps. 7:13, “to give a fixed‏ .כונן ‎‘on this speck becomes 50 infinitely smalt.‏

‎= disection.” Thus we also read in Chapter 11:20 ‏חצם על יתר‎ n>. In ‏,בונגתה‎
‎the 1008 of personal interference is stressed by means of the ‏:ה‎ “to which

‎—_ Thou hast given a fixed direction, whose paths Thou hast set for them.”
| wun, see Comm. to Gen. 4:26 (related to vax, ty), denotes a tainted class

‎jn mankind. It signifies that human being wha dnec not think of bimself ax an