AvIng, SISO Spread lar 820 Wide Iie (rhe ‏סמה‎ solemn ‏+נסקמנו‎ OF tie Mn
‏ב‎ standing which has inspired your joyous song.”
. V. 9, 10, ‏.מלך וג‎ The Lord began His reign over the nations
when He introduced Israel into the course of world history. In the begin-
ning, of course, it was only Israel, “the self-sacrificing nation among all the
Vv others,” that rallied round the Lord. But they did so as ‏אלקי אברהם‎ OF,
the people of the God of Abraham, the patriarch who, from the very
beginning, had been appointed to be ‏,אב המון גוים‎ and whose election was
to bring a blessing to all of mankind. It was with the awareness that, as the
‏ש‎ first among the nations, it must lead all the other peoples on the road back
to God and to His Law that Israel assumed its role in the history of the
world, (Cf. Commentary to Exod. 4:22, Levit. 20:26), The election of
Vv Abraham by which the Lord guaranteed the future welfare of mankind
coincided with the erection by man of that high tower which was meant to
take the heavens by storm and to be a monument to the worship of man
as the Supreme Power. With the dispersion of mankind all over the earth
‏ש‎ that came as a result of this daring attempt, there began a chain of develop-
ments in the history of the world from amidst which thenations will be able
to find their way back to God only after long and painful experiences as
Vv described in Psalm 46, At that very time, when it appeared as if the Lord
had withdrawn into His heights, leaving mankind to go on unaided, to
learn the lessons inherent in the ruinous course of its history, He chose for
‘His very own Abraham and the nation that was to descend from him.
Vv By this act, the Lord created an instrument which was to light the way for
mankind in its wanderings through time and to insure man’s eventual retarn:
to God, and his attainment of that salvation which can be won on earth only
-- through God, Those who bear and cultivate the ideals represented by
Abroham and Israe] are called ‏מגני ארץ‎ “the shields of the earth,” The Lord
has established and guided them, and leads and guides them still, even when