5 which they all will hold dear in common, and on the basis of the dignity
before their Maker which they all have an equal opportunity to attain by
the fulfillment of His will, the societics of nations will have the opportunity
of achieving lasting peace and prosperity bascd upon complete equality of

Vv right and duty such as can be won only under God.
V. 6—8, "1 IM. This psalm in which David “beholds” God's
greatness views the evolution of mankind to its ultimate goal in three stages.
‏ש‎ ‘Therefore the psalm is divided into three parts by the interjection ‏סלה‎ which
occurs at the end of Verse 2 and again at the end of Verse 5. In the first
stage, the recognition of the existence of God and obedience to His will
permeates the ranks of the Jewish people alone. The second stage shall be
Vv reached when this worship of God will have been spread among the other
nations, and their leaders will submit to the supreme authority of God.
In the third and final stage, these leaders will withdraw entirely from their
‏ש‎ positions of power, and all the nations will render homage to God without an
intermediary. Then the development of the earth will have achieved its
purpose. The earth will have done all that which was within its power to
do. For it is the experience gathered by men from the course of the de-
Vv velopment of earth and its produce that will have Ied mankind to the high
moral plane at which they will render homage to God alone, Cf. nox
‏מארץ תצמח‎ (Psalm 85:12). Then God shall bless us; then we shall have
‏ש‎ reached the goal of all our mission among the nations by proclaiming God
as our own God Who demands that we serve Him not with simple “belief*

— but with obedience. It is only by obedience that we can really and truly
do His bidding. And then not only we ourselves, but all the ends of the
earth shall fear God and none beside Him, thus achieving for ourselves the

| sole source of Divine blessing on earth which can be attained only through
‘ha once fear af the Tard .\