PSALM XXXIX
1) To Him Who grantsstength ‏ממ‎ pir) maaab a ‏לט‎
‎to master the Providences of God's spans ‏*דדכ'.‎ sb
Nn hand. A Psalm of David. . oT
2) 1 thought, “I will take heed NADIE DT] Mae MAY
to my ways, that I sin not with my
PSALM XXXIX
‏.שר‎ 1. pm’. In Baba Bathra 14b, ‏ידותון‎ is mentioned among
the psalmists whose songs are contained in the ‏תהלים‎ 'o. In Psalm 77,
however, the superscription reads ‏.למנצח על ידותתן‎ In that instance, ‏ידותון‎
‎5 would very definitely refer not to a singer, but to the theme of the psalm.
In Psalm 39, too, if ‏ידותון‎ would refer to the name of a psalmist, it would
‘be difficult to understand his relationship to David, of whom the phraso
‏,מזמור לדודד‎ which is also part of the superscription, tells us that he and not
another writer, was the author of the psalm that follows. Therefore we
Vv helieve that in this psalm too, ‏ידותתן‎ would be part of the description of
the contents of the psalm rather than the namo of a person. ‏ידות ,ידותון‎
is derived from ‏ידה‎ as ‏פדות‎ is from 7718, ‏ידה‎ from which we derive ‏,יד‎ “the
‏שי‎ hand,” in its Kal form denotes an activity of the hand, as in ‏ידו אליה‎
(Jeremiah 50:14), where it indicates “a thrust of the arrow.” In the same
manner, nv, referring to God, would be “an act of God's hand,” part of
the providence of His almighty power. The ‏מדרש‎ bas a similar inter-
Vv pretation, namely ‏על הדתות ועל הדינין ועל הגזירות של צרה‎ (sce Rashi).
There are two forms, namely ‏שבות‎ and map (Num, 21:30) to
express the concept of captivity or exile, and both are often found combined
‏שי‎ into one word by means of ‏קרי‎ and ‏.כתיב‎ maw, however, is employed more
often to denote the abstract, gencral concept of exile, while ‏שבית‎ seems to
indicate the concrete manifestation of exile or captivity as shown in in-
dividual instances. In the same manner, ‏ידות‎ most likely would express the
Vv concept of God's Sovereignty in general, while ‏ירית‎ would denote individual
instances of Divine providence. Hence the word ‏,ידיתון‎ a combination of
‏ירות‎ and ‏ידית‎ effected by ‏קרי‎ and ‏כתיב‎ would mean the eternally constant
‏שי‎ Divine Providence as demonstrated in the fate of individuals.
Thus David has dedicated Psalm 39 to “Him Who grants us the
—_ spiritual fortitude to master victoriously those tasks set our souls by the
providence of His hand." This is quite in accordance with the contents of
the rest of the chapter,
| 2. "Minx. David says, "1 resolved to muard my ennduet not