SULKes Hames Ol ire, BO So
\ storms, through the ordered regularity of its course, proctaims Him Who
- stil ‏.עשה ארץ בכחו מכין תבל בתכמתו ובתבונתו נטת שמים‎ Just as the first
raindrop fell upon earth only after the advent of the first man (Gen. 2:5;
see Commentary ibid.), so every raindrop even today is not only the
product of God's physical order of nature, but also an instrument of His
‏שי‎ moral rule over the world. Rain is produced in accordance with the natural
Jaws laid down by God at the time of Creation, but whether it is given or
witheld depends upon God’s guidance as He trains and disciplines mankind,
as it stated in the terse sentence ‏שאלו מאת ה' מטר בעת מלקוש‎ in Zechariah 1.
‏ש‎ It is ‏מלקוש‎ ny; in accordance with the regular cycle of the seasons, ordained
by God, ‏מלקוש‎ ny rain is to be expected. However ‏ה' מטר‎ nya ‏שאלו‎ it
depends upon His decision whether or not you shall indeed receive it, and
‏שי‎ whether it shall be a blessing to you, or a curse, for ‏ה' שה חזיוים ומטר גשם‎
imps ‏לאיש עשב‎ on? ‏.יתן‎ We have explained this truth in our Program
Journal for 1873 (ibid.). Therefore, if ‏,אל הכבוד הרעים‎ then it is ‏,ח'‎ Who
‏על סים רבים‎ cules over the many waters. ‏אל הכבוד‎ is the omnipotence
Vv ‘Whose existence and activity can be seen in all things great and beautiful.
See Commentary to Exed, 16:7, Cf. Psalm 19:2.
V. 4. ‏.קול ה' בכח זג"‎ This voice of the Lord, through His Law,
‏שי‎ charges you to develop all your moral potentialities and harmoniously to
perfect all your talents and faculties, It is this same yoice, too, that speaks
to you wherever you perceive a show of strength or harmonious beauty
in nature, ‘That Jaw which, through God's almighty will, immutably fulfils
Vv itself by unfolding strength and beauty in every creature, is the same law
which the Lord has sent to you with His voice, speaking to you through His
Law, so that it may guide you in shaping and developing your human
— personality.
| V.5, 6, 7. "mn ‏.קול ה' שבר‎ The voice of the Lord, which demonstrates.