ae,
context, ‏לנצה‎ 72°, at any rate, indicates a permanent abode and therefore
can surely refer only to Mount Zion, However, naw at times does indicate
2S, a temporary sojourn, as in ‏זה שכתה הבית מעט‎ (Ruth 2:7), Accordingly
‏ההר וגו" לשבתר‎ could refer to Mt. Zion and ‏אף ה' ישכון לנצח‎ would mean,
“in a similar manner, on an equally humble mountain, will He also establish
‘His permanent abode.”
‏.רכב וגו" .18 .ער שי‎ This is the same thought as is expressed in Verse
17. Here, however, greater emphasis is placed upon the dignity possessed
by the buman being who is sincerely devoted to God, and the worth in-
herent even in that man who is yet to be won for this unreserved devotion
‏ש‎ to His Maker. Such persons are worth while despite the insignificance and
frequently blemished nature of their outer appearance as compared to the
myriads of celestial beings reposing above in unclouded splendor. ev
‏שי‎ is probably tantamount to paw (CE ‏צאן‎ and ‏,לצנאכם‎ Num, 32:24, com-
mentary ibid.), “an undisturbed rest.” Here it is probably used also with
reference to the eternally constant, unchangeable nature of the heavenly
beings, and the unalterable direction of their endeavors, creatures of whom
Vv it is said ‏לא ימבד בלכתן‎ (Ezech, 1:12), Twice ten thousand of thousands of
creatures of blessed exaltation are bearer’s of God's glory, And yet 53 “27%,
God, Who has made men worthy of serving Him and allows them to call
‏שי‎ Him “my Master,” bas descended from amidst those celestial myriads, and
has entered into the midst of earthly creatures possessed of human frailties,
Now Mount Sinai is no longer to be sought in the wilderness but may be
found within the Sanctuary which God caused human hands to erect for
4 Him. In Ezekiel 43:15 the upper eminence of the altar is actually called
‏הראל‎ “the mountain of God.” (See Commentary to Exodus 27:8). In the
wilderness, the “mountain of the Lord” was the site upon which His Law
— was revealed. In the Sanctuary ‏הראל‎ denotes the place at which man may
express his desire to strive upward to the height of the Divine Law revealed
| on that holy mountain, .\