at last. Jacob is that patriarch of the Jewish people whose entire life was
‘one chain of trials and sorrows and who, therefore, serves as a shining example
to his descendants to uphold them whenever they, too, arc bowed low by
2S, grief and pain. Jacob calls the attention of his household to God, ‏הענה אתי‎
‏צרתי‎ ava (Gen. 35:3), and therefore the name of “Jacob” was preserved
for his people forever for all the days of its exile, ‏שגכ‎ (sce Psalm 9:10).
3. ‏,ישלח וג‎ The Lord will send you your help from the Sanctu-

Vv ary. He will help you because of your attitude to His Sanctuary, because
all of your existence is consecrated to it and your deliverance will therefore
advance the sacred cause of His Law, ‏,ומציון יסעדך‎ He will let spiritual

‎refreshment and strength come to you from the spiritual fount that ows‏ ש
‎is “to refresh,” “to strengthen,”‏ סעד ,)14:7 ‎forth from Zion. wx (see Psalm‏
‎denoting the “supporting” or “corroborating”‏ שהד ‎and‏ סחד ‎“4g support.”‏
‎witness, are related to this word.‏

‎4 ‏,יזכר וגו" = .4 ד‎ imap is that sacrifice which symbolizes the worship-
per’s “meal, oil and incense,” his food, bis prosperity, his joy of life, and
thus symbolically bis entire fate, which is humbly placed at the feet of

‎Vv the Lord. A handful of this offering, ‏קומץ‎ is taken away and burned at the
altar as an ‏.אזכרה‎ The ‏אזכרה‎ expresses the plea that God, on Whom we
depend for our food, our prosperity and our happiness, may “remember”

‎us and bless all the material goods which constitute ovr material happiness‏ ש
‎in life. See Commentary to Lev. 2:2 and 2:11—12, Therefore we have here‏
.יזכר כל מנחתיך ‎the expression‏

‎is the “ascent offering.” By means of this sacrifice the worshipper‏ עולה

‎pledges himself to “ascend” steadily to that height shown us by the symbol‏ ש
‎of the Divine altar of the Sanctuary of the Law. This sacrifice symbolizes the‏
‎of his entire “personality,” and the dedication‏ נפש (דם) ‎consecration of his‏

‎-- of all bis physical faculties ‏(איברים)‎ to the flaming power of God's Law for
the fulfillment of His will ‏ניתוה לה')‎ fi). (See Commentary to Lev. 1:3,
1:5, 1:7, 1:9, 1:10--13(. .