0 ‏.ו‎ -/ "₪ EE PO EEE EE ELE
what He requires of you. Every sacrifice, too, is a ‏דר‎ a vow to make a
living reality by our own deeds that which was symbolically expressed by
the sacrificiat ceremony. (See Commentary to Lev. 22:23). “Therefore,”

‎says tho Lord, “every one of your sacrifices should be an acknowledgement‏ שי
‎of your debt to God, and a tribute to Him, and it is incumbent upon you‏
‎to fulfill by your own life that vow which you have pledged to the Most‏
‎High swith your offerings.‏

‎v ‏,קראני זגל | .15 יר‎ “And even as you pay tribute to Me as the guide
of your deeds both by the symbol of the sacrifice and by the way in which
you conduct your daily lives, so you shall render Me homage also ax the

‎ruler of your 60910165. Turn to Me, and to Me alone in the time of trouble‏ שי
‎and then the cayenant which you renew with every offering you bring will‏
‎be effective reciprocally—I shall set you free and you will honor Mc.”‏

‎V. 16. ‏ולרשע וג"‎ ‘This is a most instructive and significant de-

‎4 scription of the character of the ‏רשע‎ who is condemned here in the sharpest
terms by God Himself. It would appear that he stands firmly on the basis
of Jewish law, for he tells all the world that he worships God and honors

‎Vv His Torah. He may even be a ‏חורה‎ y3, a ‏.למדן‎ He is familiar with the lore
of the law, knowing how to expound God's word quite accurately and in
great detail, and be docs so freely. He glibly speaks about it and tells us

‎the‏ המוה ‎what duties are incumbent upon the loyal Jew. He prates of‏ ש
‎“covenant of the Lord,” and yet all this knowledge and talk of the law is‏

‎— nothing but ‏ספור חוקי ה'‎ a most indifferent “recounting” of God's statutes.
‘To him the ‏דינים‎ are matters that affect him personally riot at all, to him the

‎-- study and the knowledge of them are nothing else but a mental pastime,

‎| an exercise for the mind, His heart is not in it, and be bears the covenant
of the Lord only “upan his lips.” His sou! inawe nnthine of it (Tn this cons