OES AQIS AE
‘V.3. “MV ‏.יפיפית‎ “One need only look at you and hear you speak,””
\ says the singer of the king, “and one can readily see that you are no ordinary
- man and one will understand, too, why God has appointed you to such a
high calling, the import of which extends beyond our present day into
eternity.” The psalmist does not glorify the royal crown, scepter or ermine,
the outer trappings of power, but only those attributes that are part of this
‏ש‎ King's personality and which would distinguish him from other men even
if he were not a king. The Lord has blessed him at all times because of
his physical beauty which is manifest in his outer appearance and his
intelligence which is revealed in his words tbat win and fascinate minds and
‏שי‎ souls, For it is the mind and the word with which a person can bring
blessings to mankind such as will endore far beyond his own existence on
earth. If, as most likely is the case here, David is the king so addressed,
‏ש‎ then, of course, it is indeed by his intellectual qualities and his skill with
the spoken word that he will live on, immortal, as a blessing for all times
to come. ‏חך‎ is that intellectual power by which he who possesses it may
win the heatts of men. See Commentary to Gea. 6:8. Here this quality
‏שי‎ could be attributed to the power of David's word, and David would have
become ‏זמירות ישראל‎ mys “the sweetest singer in 19061" even if he had
never become king of the Jews,
‏חור וג" ,4 יע שי‎ “But you are also ‏ה‎ hero, and when you gird
yourself with your sword, it 15 n0 mere decoration. The sword at your side
is a symbol of your majesty and becomes you well, for you know to wield
‏ש‎ it as a hero, and for this reason it is both ‏הודך‎ and ‏".הדרך‎
‎V. 5, ‏וג"‎ Tm, “But all this is your true glory only because you
--- employ it in the service of the cause of truth and right.” This service is
expressed here by the words nox and ‏,רכב‎ both of which together designate
— the rightful role of the ruler, nt (sce Commentary to Gen, 24:21) is
| the procedure which can overcome any difficulty, and 229, which primarily