breaks off with Verse 24, concluding Psalm 55 with a note of confidence,
stating that he knows that all men of Achithophel’s kind bring about their
own destruction by their evil acts. According to Megillah 18a, ‏יהבך‎ means
“your burden.” But if ‏יהב‎ is the root of ‏,הב‎ from which we derive the
interjection nan, and therefore means “to bring,” “to give,” then ‏יהכך‎
‎would denote not only “that which the Lord gives you to bear,” but rather
2S, “that which you have to bring,” or “the duty which is incumbent upon
you.”  לכלכ‎ see Commentary to Gen, 45:11. my ‏,לבאר‎ net ‏,בור שחת‎
“the pit of destruction,” but ‏באר שתת‎ “the well of destruction” from which
destruction springs forth, All thelr life is nothing but a well generating the
destruction that will overtake them in the end, ‏.לא יחצו ימיהם‎ This literally
v came true in the case of Achithophel who took his own life when he realized
that his plot of treason had failed. (II Sam. 17:23).
‏ש‎ PSALM LVI
‏.ער‎ 1.  הצנמל.‎ This superscription is certainly appropriate to this
chapter in the Book of Psalms. For this psalm derives from the earliest
Vv days of David's life of trials and tribulations, Both here and in Psalm 57
aro set down the emotions felt by David as he descended to the depths of
misery upon the first lap of his flight from Saul, He, the glotious son-indaw
‏שי‎ of the king, to whom both king and nation owed their victory and security
against their archenemies, must now fice bis own nation and is compelled
to take refuge with these very same foes in order to escape death at ‘the
hands of his king. In the end, be is compelled to flee even from the bands
Vv of the Philistines “who had taken him,” and he can escape them only by
feigning insanity, Chapter 57 was written after David's deliverance from
the hands of that foc. When David wrote Psalm 56, however, he was still
‏שי‎ in the hands of the Philistines who had taken him and who had demanded
his life from the hands of their king because they recognized David, the
— refugee, as the maa who had been victor over them, and they practically
regarded David as the rightful king of the land of the Jews. (I Sam, 21:12).
——— ‘The content of this psalm proves to us that David, even in this seemingly
| hopeless state, could still soar to the heights of Divine inspiration. He was