Spokesman (70D 5:22), ‏,מלוצה‎ poetry (rrov. 1:0). in its noble sense this
word denotes the art of translation from one language into the other, in-
terpretation. When applied to judgment, it indicates the proper representa-
tion of the facts in behalf of the defense. When applied to the emotions, it
‏ש‎ denotes the pleasant arts; 1. 6. poetry. In its less noble meaning, however,—
and especially the noun ‏לץ‎ belongs to this category—the word denotes that
pernicious and despicable art of distorting speech. In a false though super~,
ficially attractive manner, the ‏לץ‎ represents the base and mean as being lofty
Vv and of high moral value, and mocks or ridicules as idle folly all that is spirit-
ually and morally exalted. This is the execrable art of spurious dialectics and
wicked irony. Jointly with the ‏רשעים‎ and the ‏,הטאים‎ the ‏לצים‎ are the foes of
‏ש‎ the ‏.תורה‎ For just as the ‏רשעים‎ and the ‏חטאים‎ transgress the law in practice,
the ‏,לצים‎ out of habit or from sheer cowardice, still practice all the precepts
of the Torah, yet ridicule this way of life. Their prattle serves to undermine
in the hearts of their fellow-men the respect for all that which is sacred and
Vv holy.
‘The words ‏לוש‎ and ‏לשון‎ seem related both phonetically and in concept
to ‏לרץ‎ and ‏.לצון‎ The tongue shapes and forms ‏(לוש)‎ the food taken into the
Vv mouth into a bite, and shapes and forms the voice into an articulated sound
of speech. yit—like most of the x-roots in relation to the w-roots—is the
artificial use of speech,
‘The word 73°, from which my is derived, docs not primarily mean “to
Vv give advice to another” but actually denotes the reaching of a decision after
deliberation and taking counsel, and ‏עצה‎ is a decision or plan arrived at after
due deliberation, So it is also particularly said of God, nxt, ‏וכאשר יעצתי היא תקום‎
——— prea ‏העצה היעוצה על כל‎ (Isaiah 14:24, 26, etc.). It is in direct contrast to ‏,יאש‎
‎which expresses the complete perplexity and helplessness of all hope lost. As
opposed to this, we have ‏ניעץ‎ perplexity overcome by deliberation,