a natonal bard of the Jewish people attunes his lyre for a wedding bymo,
his song contains words that are just as instructive and worthy of com
templation and consideration as those which he has written concerning the
sorrows of his nation, The “roses” mentioned in the superscription could
34 easily be understood as a pretty allegory portraying the king and his queenty
bride to whom this hymn js dedicated, However, this samo superscription,
meaty ‏על‎ and ‏אל שושנים‎ also occurs in Psalm 69 and 80, and the thems of
those psalms is thoroughly serious and solemn, dealing with Israel as, rur-
rounded by enemies and threatened by destruction, it still refuses to abandon
Vv its trust in the Lord. This might bring us to think also of the thorns with
which roses have been provided for purposes of protection. Isracl i a
rose, protected by thorns, which no impudent hand may harm aad still
‏שי‎ remain wholly unpunished. in this chapter, too, the allegory of the “roses”
may describe the king and queen not only in their beauty, but also in their
inviolable majesty.
‏שי‎ V. 2, ‏,רהש וג‎ ‘This is the only instance in the ‏הג"ך‎ where ‏רחש‎
‎is employed in a verb form. In Rabbinic literature it means ‘to move” and
is used particularly to denote a movement of the lips. In general it signifies
‏ם‎ quick but noiseless movement, and is therefore employed in the same
‏ש‎ sense as the Hebrew ‏-שרץ‎ Ordinary writers and poets merely search for
pretty words and phrases. They feel that once they have found the right
words, the right thoughts will also come to them. Not so the Koraide. The
‏ש‎ source of his poetry is deep within his heart. The song is fully formed
within his heart, and the word serves only 10 utter that which his heart has
alxeady created. The tongue is merely the stenographer’s pen which notes
down that which someone else has said. The tongue may actually create the
‏ש‎ thoughts of other poets, but, in the case of the Koraldes, it sets forth only
that which the spirit has moved it to utter, It is not ‏למלך‎ (with a nn
_ under the Initial ‏(ל‎ but ‏למלך‎ (with a ‏שוא‎ under this ‏(ל‎ , and therefore the
question may remain open as to whether this psalm is addressed to one
particular king, or whether the singer had in mind any Jewish king in pare
| ticular to whom he dedicated his song. See Commentary to Verse 11.