and speaks the truth with his heart, ‏אָמָת בִּלְבָבְוג‎
A 3) He who has bome no slander nny ‏עַללש9‎ 1 bio 6

₪ הולך תפים .6:9 ‎See Commentary to Gen‏ .הולך תמים וגו" .2 .ער

the moral way of life followed by the individual, that “moral integrity” which

subordinates all its physical and spiritual desires without reservation to the

Sovereignty of the moral Law. (See also Commentary to Gen. 17:1). This

is the prime prerequisite for a Jewish way of life which is characterized above

all by the contro and sanctification of physical sensuality. According to

Jewish truth, physical, sensual bestiality and spiritual elevation to God cannot

coexist, God drives away the immoral man from the threshold of His house.

2S, map is the basic character of the Jewish Divine Sanctuary, and is expressed
by the observance of the mpm. The second requirement is ‏,פעל צדק‎ social

justice (see ibid. 6:9), the fulfillment of the ‏,משפטים‎ obedient honesty in

‘our dealings with our fellow-men. Any act of dishonesty against another

man, just as any other excess of immorality, is an abomination to the Lord.

‎‘Thus says the Lord in the Law that‏ .בי תועבת ה' אלקיך כל עשה אלה כל עשה עול ש
‎reposes in His Sanctuary (Devt. 25:16). The immoral man, as well as the‏
‎dishonest person, has no right to dwell in the House of the Lord. Thelr abodes‏

‎do not stand on the mountain of God, nor do they belong to the environs of‏ ש
‎the House of the Lord. The third, and final requirement for a way of life that‏
‎T3n, the veracity of thought and‏ אמת בלבבר ‎is truly ethical and honest is‏
‎speech, The words he speaks are true, and the truth which passes over bis‏

‎Vv lips also dwells within his heart.

‎Morality, honesty and truthfutess, then, constitute the threefold re-

‎quitement which the Sanctuary of God’s Law exacts from anyone who wishes

‎to “sojourn” in it and who desires to “dwell” on His holy mountain. For the‏ שי
‎Lord's Sanctuary is indeed a Sanctuary of the Law, and the “Law", the will‏

‎of God which determines every aspect of our lives, constitutes the Holy of

‎Holies in the House of the Lord. The sole purpose of crossing the threshold

‎Vv of this sanctuary is to renew our covenant with this Iaw and thereby to gain
renewed strength for the maintenance of this pledge. It is this observance of
the law that must stamp every house whos¢ threshold is to form part of the

‎environs of the Sanctuary of the Lond,‏ ש

‎Tt naturally follows from the foregoing that our lives outside the
a House of the Lord must not in any way conflict with the requirements set
by the Divine Law to which that House is dedicated,
V. 3. "mn ‘a4 RY Here are some of the most outstanding features
| of a life that would be in conflict with the requirements set by the Sanctuary |