We Be ‏סד זה‎ CNG Of Psd’ 10 Mavid snnounces thal the +55148-
tion of the knowledge and worship of the Lord, to be effected by means of
his songs, would be his main purpose in life and the fruit of his sorely-tried
stay on earth, Here we have perhaps the most significant example of such
a psalm, It has as its theme the sources from which one could come to
secognize the Lord and worship Him. To David these sources are the book
of nature, irom which he derives his knowledge of God, and the Torah,

5 from which he has learned how to worship Him. David states that the reve~

. Iation at Sinai was not essential for the recognition of the fact that there
must be someone Who is the omniponent creator, regulator and ruler of all
the world. The realization that there must be a God could come to anyone
who thoughtfully contemplates nature and the heavens in particular (Verses

‎The study of the heavens and earth alone, however, does not provide‏ .)2-7 שי
‎man with the answer to the question why be should praise God or recognize‏
‎Him as his master. The heavens and the world about us cannot answer the‏
‎question of what man should do with his freedom of will and action in a‏
‎Vv world which is dominated by God's omnipotence and ruled by His Law. The‏
‎mere contemplation of the wonders of nature will not teach man how he‏
‎must employ his free will and liberty of action in the service of the Lord.‏
‎Vv By merely looking at the heavens and earth, man will never discover the‏
‎Divine Law which governs his task in this world, Whatever answer he would‏
‎derive from this kind of study would only enmesh him in hopeless confusion.‏
‎It is only the Wosd of God, the Divine Law, the Torah which was handed‏ ש
‎down to Israel and the rest of mankind on Mount Sinai which gives him‏
‎that exalting doctrine which is in harmonions accord with man’s nature‏
‎and which will shape man’s individual and communal life in accordance‏
‎Vv with God's will (Verses 810). The Torah, therefore, should be his sole‏
‎desire. This goal may at first seem to stand in the way of the fulfillment of‏
‎‘our lusts but when attained, will yield an ever-increasing abundance of whole-‏
‎some fntit (Verses 11—12). Anyone who honestly strives to fulfill the‏ שי
‎ideals set down in the Torah may be sure of God's assistance in his loyal‏

‎008 endeavors. Indeed, he cannot possibly de without this help from the Lord
if he is to succeed in what he has set out to accomplish (Verses 13—14}.

‎_ Psalm 19 ends with the hope that this concept of God's dual revelation in

‎| ature and in law, and the manner in which this idea is set down in song for
the guidance of mankind may find fayor 5- *t- ‏הרייד‎ -' st- 8-4 --4 ota