5 contrast to 5821 "29, the pain and misery that is the lot of Israel in exile,
. Te is for this reason that the ‏שיר‎ and the ‏תודה‎ which Israel, though exiled,
sings unto God, is more pleasing to Him than were the sacrifices symbolizing
Israel's striving after Him when it was still “independent and armed for
battle.” For the sacrifice was merely a promise, a pledge of full devotion to
Vv the service of the Lord, The ‏שיר‎ and the imnn, however, this proclamation
of God's rule and of His grestness as uttered by Israel, the nation which
even in exile resolutely pursues its destiny, is not a mere pledge, but part
of the actual fulfillment of the task which Israel must discharge under God.
4 V. 33. ‘Wo. This phenomenon of Israel in exile has repercussions
far beyond the Jewish people itself, The oppressed throughout the world
see it and rejoice in the comfort and encouragement given them by the
Vv example of Israel. To them Israel calls out, “Yes, all of you who ‘see God,’
all of you who earnestly wish to behold God's hand in the course of history,
now see this and Iet your hearts quicken, for you see fulfilled in Israel's 6
‏ש‎ the very hopes which you have cherished for yourselves in your own hearts.”
‏שמע וג = .34 שר‎ 99. “Behold, God hearkens to all those who stand
there helpless and irresolute, and even when He shackles men in the bonds
of pain, this does not mean that He deems them deserving of contempt. As
Vv 2 matter of fact, the suffering which God inflicts upon man is a mark of the
particular high regard in which He holds the person whom He wishes thus

to test and train.” ‏.את אשר יאהב ה' יוכיח‎
Vv ‏יר‎ 35. "av ‏,יהללוהו‎ The recognition of God's greatness, broadcast
far and wide by the steadfast conduct of Israel even in exile, spreads through-
-- out the earth. And then the revelation of God shall sound from the heavens
and from the earth so that man's spirit may perceive it. Thea mankind will
at last behold God, Whom heaven and earth proclaim, as He openly demon-

| strates His 80 in the course of the history of man.