didst receive ‏מתנות‎ ‘gifts of consecration’ from men. Men had proclaimed

yawn ‏נעשה‎ and thus dedicated themselves to Thy service forevermore.

5, Men have erected the Sanctuary so that they might constantly reaffirm their
dedication, and renew this consecrated covenant forever by the giving of

‘symbolic gifts’ ‏אף סוררים וגז' . (מתנות)‎ and thus Thou hast given an oppor-

tunity even to the rebellious to find theie own dwelling place under God’s

almighty rule.” Psalm 68 began with the statement that if God were to

4 rise up in all His might, all those opposing Him would perish immediately.

Tt was declared in Verse 7 that ‏,סוררים שכנד צחיהה‎ will remain upon the

barren rock of despair as long as they will persist in their disobedience to

‎God's will, But, by introducing Israel into the world, God opened even to‏ ש
‎the opportunity to return to Him and to attain salvation. For‏ סוררים ‎the‏

‎it was not the most obedient of peoples that God chose to be His nation

‎Vv and His messengers; Israel, a3 our sages put it, was ‏שבאומות‎ ty, the most
headsteong and stubborn among the nations. The early part of its history

‎is replete with instances of error and defection. The characterization of

‎by describes its basic trait, and its very first leader repeatedly‏ קשה עורף שי
ממרים הייתם ‎by‏ ה' ‎had cause to remonstrate with his people with these words‏

‎(Deut. 9:24), The very fact that the Torah was able to‏ מיום דעתי אתכם

‎win Israel over is clear proof that, again by the power of the Torah, all dis-‏ ש
‎obedience, wherever it may occur, will one day be tumed into loyalty, and‏

‎all stubbornness into meck submission, so that it will yet be possible for all

‎individuals and nations who are now ‏סוררים‎ to secure new hope during their

‎4 sojourn on earth before God. Thus the prophet says of the nations that will
— dwell round about Zion when Zion will be restored: ‏שכן חליתי‎ oR ‏וכל‎
‏,העם היושב בה נשוא עוך‎ “dut 16: no neighboring nation say, ‘I am doomed

‎— to decay’, For even the nation now living in Zion has erred, but still was

‎| able to come into its own once more because it atoned for its errors.