Aollowed I, ane tien Ne 16 Wto BT ler T
the ditch which he wanted to
prepare.
for his own destruction. It will become the very weapon that will kill him,
‏דלק‎ (related to ‏(דלג‎ “to jump”) means “to proceed swiftly in one given
direction”. Thus, when used with reference to a fire that is driven on in the
3S, direction in which the wind blows, the word indicates “burning”, When
employed to describe the pursuer driven by his violent desire, who runs after
his victim, it denotes “to pursue”. ‘Thus we have ‏כי דלקת אתרי‎ (Gen. 31:36):
“He has prepared for himself the arrows which he wanted to use as swift
pursuers.”

Vv ‏.הנה יחבל וגל = .15 ו‎ Sais a rope or cord for measuring or binding.
From this idea of binding and tightening, we derive the concept of spasms, of
cramps: ‏הבלים‎ (after all, the concept of healing, ‏,רפא‎ originally derives from

‎“loosening”, releasing"), particutarly travail, labor pains, Yan is the ex-‏ ש
‎(Cant. 8:5). It is‏ שמה הבלתך אמך וגו" ‎pression for the act of childbirth.‏
‎similar to what we mean when we say “deliver”, only in the case of “deliver”,‏
‎it is the mother who constitutes the object of “being delivered” from the child,‏

‎Vv while in the Hebrew 93m the object is the child loosening its tie with the moth-
er's body. The word buy primarily—and we think, practically always—denotes
travail, trouble. It receives the connotation of “wrong” only through the im-

‎makes that‏ הנה ‎port of the trouble thus prepared for another person, The word‏ ש
‎etc. All the trouble he‏ ,ולו הכין ‎which follows the motive of the preceding’‏
הנה יחבל ‎has planned for others he has actually prepared only for himself, for‏
‎it is obvious that he docs not wish to bring forth anything that is good or‏ אוך

‎Vv right, What be wishes to generate by means of labor as strenuous as the act
of childbirth is px, malfeasance, violence, wrong. Therefore ‏,הרה עמל וילד שקר‎
he has conceived his own trouble and will bring forth falschood—a mis-

‎carriage. Nay, more, he sball bring into the world something that will prove‏ ש
‎to be quite the opposite of that which he originally desired, Thus we read‏
‎(Prov. 11:18). The lawless man‏ רשע עשה פעלת סקר חרע צדקה שכר אמת
מעולת שכיר ‎accomplishes falschood (actually the wages of 12156006, such as‏

‎—_ in Lev. 19:13, that which be earns by himself with his own labor). But he
| who sows devotion to duty shall reap for himself the wages of truth.
16, ‏.בור כרה וגל‎ Sec Comm. ta Gen 24-95 Ua hos duo nit and