התויח - ד
1 עתה ‎Mp‏ כי הוה ‎For now I have come to‏ )7
‎ABW ¢‏ ו .17 >" ‎know that the Lord has granteg‏
מִשִחו ‎wan‏ משמי ‎happiness to His anointed; He will py-any3 wp‏
‎always hear him from the heaven woe ees‏
‎of His Sanctuary with the omni- sO yer‏ אש
‎potent acts of salvation of His ₪‏
‎right hand,‏
‎TiN 6‏ בְרְכָב ‎Some see God in charios, QOD MN)‏ )8
‎and others in horses, but as for us, +. F i‏
‎wie remember our God by. the 2°22 SPM AYO? | wae‏
‎name of “The Lord.”‏
‎When they knelt they ₪1 UND 8 WIP AEN ₪‏ )9
‎down; but we have always risen rw wp‏ 5
‎again and have constantly kept 7 7‏
‎ourselves upright.‏
‎Vv‏
‎Vv. 7. ‘mony? any. “These are no idle dreams and fancies. We‏
‎have come to know this from ail your past life. We have seen bow the Lord‏
‎has stood by you in His sustaining and saving power because you are His‏ ש
‎anointed. We are fully confident that He will continue to hear you from the‏
‎heights of His Sanctuary. We are certain, also, that He will continue to answer‏
‎your prayers with omnipotent acts of salvation to be advanced by His right‏
‎hand, That is, we know that He will show His concem for you by means‏ שי
‎of acts of omnipotence for the purpose of that universal welfare which He‏
‎desires and which He will bring about. Your endeavors are all in the service‏
‎of that salvation, and therefore you will be successful since the Lord will‏ ש
‎not withhold His help from you.” For wx, see Commentary to Ex. 6‏
‎separates‏ בשם ה' אלהינו נזכיר ‎The accentuation of‏ .אלה וגו" .8 יר
‎We remem-‏ .נזכיר ‎and thus ties the latter word with‏ אלהינו ‎from‏ ה' ‎the word‏
יזכירו ‎Vv ber our God by the name of “The Lord." Therefore the thought‏
‎Other nations‏ .אלה ברכב ואלה בסוסים ‎should be added to the phrase‏ אלהיהם
‎behold their god in chariots and horses, but we behold Him in His wee‏
‎nature as “The Lord.”‏ שי
‎The consequence of the attitude held by the‏ .המה כרעו וג .9 ‎‘V.‏
‎other nations has always been that they eventually fell down and succumbed‏ —_—
‎when attacked. We, however, while we may indeed reel under the impact‏ —
‎of blows dealt us, have always managed to rise again and have kept our-‏
‎selves erect always. The word ny is the particle of duration: i. 6. “still.”‏ |