---" ON OE OG ONL OLED EOD NIE INES
- an earthly power, shall instead feel the pain of renunciation in all its bitter-

ness, But he who places himself under the rule of the Lord in alt his active

Efe and who entrusts his fate to Him shall not experience such chagrin, He

knows of no ‏,עצב‎ since he understands that alt his joys and sorrows are sent

him only by the One Above for the purpose of training him for attaining the

‎lofty goals of his calling on earth. To him everything that life may bring is a‏ ש
‎Dlessing; he feels that even the most grievous sorrow will serve in the end to‏
ברכת ה' היא תעשיר ולא יוסיף עצב ‎enrich his life which is dedicated to God. nny‏

‎(Prov. 10:22), We will feet the bitter pain only if we believe that our woe‏ ש
‎“other”‏ ,אחר ‎and weal and the fulfillment of our wants are dependent upon‏
‎powers, remote from our own moral way of life and subordinate to a blind‏
‎force of nature which pays no heed to our thoughts and aspirations as human‏

‎v beings. Only the thought that we were indeed so impotent before cold and
blind natural powers could cause us to feel so miserably inadequate and
devoid of all ability to strive for the fulfillment of our fondest hopes.

‎are those sacrifices which should counteract‏ נסכים. .בל אסיך נסכיהם מדם ש
‎such a divorce of our aspirations from our duties, ‘To every offering symbol-‏
‎that is brought, there must be‏ ,שלמים ‎and‏ עולה ‎izing our consecration to duty,‏
‎of wine to represent the homage we‏ נסך ‎of flour and oi] and a‏ מנחה ‎added a‏

‎Vv render God with our possessions of foodstuffs, our prosperity and our joy
of life. (See Comm. to Num. 15:16). In Lev. 17:4 the bringing of a sacri-
fice to those powers that manifest themselves in the physical sphere of nature

‎is branded as a kind of spiritual suicide. It is called a denial of man's‏ שי
‎similarity to God which raises the human being high above all the physical‏

‎-- forces of nature. ‏שמך‎ OY ‏ההוא‎ WR? ‏יהשב‎ OT (See Comm, to Lev. 17:7).
‘Therefore the meaning of Verse 4 is as follows: “Those who would ally them-

‎7-- selves with some other power wil! find that their pain of renunciation will only
| increase instead of diminish. Their drink-offerings are even more repugnant