"an tn. The earth and the fullness thereof are the Lord's, therefore
the world of men and its inhabitants are also His, ‏,ארץ‎ the earth as a
cosmic planet and as a physical sphere with all the variety of creatures
dwelling on it is not merely subordinate to the physical world order of natural +
law set forth by God as ‏מלקים‎ the Creator and Ruler of the universe.
The earth and the fullness thereof belong to the Lord Himself, Who is also
‏הי‎ the God of the Torah, the God of history. The earth must serve His
Sovereignty which trains men how to fulfil His moral Law, which Sovereignty
5, He has designated with His Name (sce Comm, to Gen, 2:4). ‏הארץ ומלואה‎
. the “easth and the fultness thereof,” that baste prerequisite for all of human
life and development, belongs to the Lord Who disciplines individual human
beings and mankind as a whole. Therefore ‏(תבל 271‘ בה‎ the world of men
and all things dwelling, sojourning, living and evolving therein, are also
‏ש‎ “His.” ‏תאל.‎ derived from ‏בלל‎ (sce Comm. to Gen, 11:9) is the world where
human arbitrariness and selfishness, instead of God's Law, seem to reign
supreme. It is that world which continues the work begun at ‏.בכל‎ But
because the Lord has in His hands ‏,ארץ‎ the physical essentials for all of
4 human existence and volition, He rules even this ban, which thus cannot
escape the ultimate goals set for it by the Divine will.
V. 2. ‏.כי הוא זג‎ For He has founded the world of men upon the
4 seas, and, guiding it in the proper course, constantly establishes it upon the
floods. The word 13, derived from 73, indicates both concepts; 16, “to
establish an object upon a foundation” and “to guide an object in the course
‏ש‎ intended for it” (Ct. Psalm 7:13, 11:2). ‘This is one aspect of the 0000
of all human development upon the physical conditions which are in turn
controlled by God Himself. The development of all nations is influenced
‏ש‎ by geographical location. God formed the earth with a variety of physical
features. He linked and divided continents by means of seas, and countries
by rivers. He created various climatic zones by raising and lowering the
ahitudes of land and thus increasing or diminishing its distance from the
‏ש‎ sun. By so regulating earth's geographical and climatic features the Lord
set the course of history and that of the development of man in alf the multi-
--- plicity of national characteristics and peculiarities, and He still guides all
this evolution in the paths best suited for His purposes. All the earth is
a "training ground” for God, on which men are to attain the peak of their
| moral destiny and God's nearness here below. (Cf. Psalm 15:1),