aa aa
ap, “the precious", as in ‏מזולל‎ Wp? ‏אם תוציא‎ (Jeremiah 15:19). This particu-
tarly refers to the baseness expressed in crude sensual enjoyment: ‏וסובא‎ Yat
(Deut. 21:20), ‏בשר‎ oY (Prov. 23:20). ‘The noun is ‏,מלות‎ “baseness”.
5
PSALM ‏זא‎
‎V. 1. ‘ur ‏.למנצה‎ This psalm ₪ practically a preface to Psalm 14,
constituting, as it does, an introduction to the fatter. In Psalm 13 we see
‏שי‎ Israel alone and forsaken, surrounded by enemy nations, Its strength to
continue is nearly exhausted; it fears that its existence as a nation is about
to come to an end because it has come to a stage where it lacks the spiritual
power to perceive the hand of God constantly manifest in Israel's history,
4 even when He makes Israel suffer. Israel feels that it has been abandoned,
Its heart is heavy with care and has no strength left with which to attempt to
rise above its misery. Israel is afraid that it will now falter in its faith and
‏שי‎ in its loyalty to its mission, and that its foes will triumph when they see that
at Iast Israel has begun to waver. Therefore Israel prays for a Divine ray
of Light so that it may gather renewed courage to persevere until that day
when it may bave cause to offer a hymn of praise to God, thanking Him for
Vv letting all its sufferings ripen into the full bloom of happiness.
‏יר‎ 2. max ty. The interrogative particle 7x refers to space; it signifies
the question “Where?”. Thus we have ‏אנ‎ which is synonymous with ‏,לאן‎
‏שי‎ “Where 10", But in some instances ‏אכה‎ is also used to denote time ("how
Iong?”), in which case itis usvally inked with ‘y, “until what time?”. In this
sentence ‏אנת‎ can mean either “until what degree of misery?” or “how much
‏ש‎ longer?", The accentuation shows that ‏ה‎ ax ‏עד‎ and ma mown are two
separate questions, “Whither shall my present situation Iead?” or “to what
— end shall my misery endure?”—n32 ‏,תשכחנר‎ Israel feels as if it were the
playtbing of fate to which the Lord has apparently abandoned it. This is a
-- state which is called the apparent result of a series of accidents in the ‏,תוכחה‎
‎| the prophecy of Galuth in the ‏.קרי :חורה‎