3S, ‏יוור ור המו ויו ו ו הממי‎ rece raat A
0 He merely asks that he might come to truly realize the fact that God is close
to everyone that calls upon Him, that He will hear his ery. This awareness
that God is nigh makes David’s burden lighter to bear. God Himself has
already set him free in the past, ‏,בצר‎ even in such distress as that in which he
‏ש‎ now finds himself. 1200655 no longer frightens him, nor does it oppress him
(that is the actual meaning of the word 72); his spirit has found release; he
has already overcome the distress within himself through the knowledge that
‏שי‎ God is near him and hears his cry.
‏,חנני ושמע תפלתי‎ Filled with this newly-won peace of mind, he now
rises to ‏.תפלה‎ Unlike ‏תחנה‎ and ‏חפלה ,בקשה‎ is not simply a plea directed to
God. ‏,התפלל‎ derived from ‏,פלל‎ “to reason”, means to acquire, through the
Vv power of reasoning, the proper discernment of what is good and true; to gain
from God the proper perspective and the correct attitude (see Commentary
to Gen, 20:7). And when a ‏תפלה‎ does take the form of 2 plea, as do the
‏ברכות ש‎ of our ‏,שמונה עשרה‎ then its purpose is not simply to bring a request of
ours before the Lord, but to fill our hearts with the knowledge that God is
the sole source of the fulfillment of our desires and that we must pledge
whatever good He may send us solely to the fulfillment of His will on earth,
Vv This pledge is yoiced anew with every ‏ברוך אתה‎ that is addressed to God.
‘This ‏תפלה‎ which David desires to utter after having regained his peace
of mind, since he had become aware of God’s neamess in the midst of his
‏שי‎ distress, obviously begins only in Verses 7—9.
V. 3. ‏.בני איש‎ He interrupts his communion with God with this
form of address directed to human beings. He sees those about him—or
ee ordinary, average men—smile at his ideas. They smile, they even ridicule
him for tuming to God in such distress instead of seeking help from men.
They sneer at the thought that he might find comfort and peace of soul bv