your favor.
‘an interpretation might suggest King Solomon, who married a daughter
of one of the Pharaos, But the references made in Verses 4—6 to acts of
valor in war could not very well apply to a king like Solomon whose entire
reign was one of peace. As for David, to whom, as we have pointed out
3 in several instances, much of the above description could very well have
referred, wo only know that he married ‏,מעכה‎ the daughter of ‏.תלמי מלך גשור‎
However, it is not clear whether, at the time of his marriage to that
princess, David had already become that kind of king to whom homage could
‏ש‎ tightly be paid in such terms as are cmployed in this psalm, And since,
according to tradition, ‏מעכה‎ had been a ‏תואר‎ Ne», captured in war, this
description would hardly be appropriate to that kind of marriage. However,
the concept of ‏עם‎ does not designate only a national entity, but also smaller
Vv units such as tribes, clans and kinship groups. (See Commentary to Gen.
28:3, 35:11, 48:4, Exodus 21:8). In accordance with this foterpretation
of ay, we believe it could be assumed that David had indeed been the king
‏ש‎ described in this psalm. However, if this were so, the ‏מלך‎ na in Verse 14
would have to be understood not to be a king's daughter in the strict sense
of the word, but simply as a maiden of noble or princely birth; this might
be admissible because she was already addressed simply as na in Verse 1.
Vv In view of all the foregoing, the question as to what king was actually meant
in this psalm should still be viewed as undecided,
‏.שר‎ 12. ‘mre. “Do not grieve,” the singer tells the bride,
Vv “Jest your sadness affect your beauty. Refrain from grieving not for con-
sideration of your own personal vanity but because of the dictates of your
sense of duty toward your husband who bas the right to demand that you
‏שי‎ Preserve your happy, cheerful mien.”
v.13. ‘nat, “Banish your sadness at the thought of the high
position for which you have left your former abode, The delegation seat
_ by the ruler of Tyre and by the wealthiest of the nation to do you homage
on the day of your heart's delight should give you some understanding of
| your new regal status.”