Everyone should see in his neighbor his own “pasture”; that is, a source of
strength, and, at the same time, he should also act as a complement and
support to the others. (See Commentary to Lev. 19:18). That word which
still bears the form and stamp of such a relationship and publicly exhibits
such an ideal state of human society when mutual trust and support have
5 actually ceased to exist, is #0, “specious,” ‏חלקות‎ now, For naw see Comm. to
Gen. 1:1, ‏.הלקות‎ pon is “smooth”, derived from ‏,חלק‎ “to divide". The
concept of smoothness coincides with that of a completed division, or sepa-
sation. Nothing can ever cleave to a surface that is entirely smooth, or
support itself thereon, All of specch has been “polished”, and words and
Vv expressions have been deprived of alf their “sharpness” and their effect. They
are now “polished smooth” to the extent that they can offer no firm founda-
tion for anything. Speech is filled with smooth expressions of humbleness
‏ש‎ and sham obedience, when actually the speaker bears within his heart feelings
that are very different from those he feigns with his polished tonguc. now
‏חלקות בלב ולב ידברר‎ is 8 language of smoothly polished words and figures of
speech. it is spoken with a double heart; that is, the heart holds opinions
Vv quite different from those the speaker has voiced with his lips. Therefore
the word ‏שפה‎ is used repeatedly. The lip, the extemal orifice of the organ
‘of speech, which should communicate that which man really feels in the
‏ש‎ inmost recesses of his spirit, is actually employed to utter the exact opposite
of these emotions. Such speech docs not serve to “express” thoughts, but
merely to “veil” them in falsehood.
V. 4,5, ‏.יכרת וגל אשר וגו'‎ The Lord, Who leads the world toward
‏ש‎ a purer, happier future, will put an end once and for all to the ruin that rav-
ages society as a result of the misuse of the word. There is nothing else that is
$0 much in opposition to the moral goals set by God’s rule as this form of
‏ש‎ moral depravity, A social system based on lies will bring ruin to mankind
more than any overtly brutal foree. When evil and falsehood are swathed
— in the cloak of goodness and truth, when men will attempt to do great things
simply with words, ‏גדולות‎ msi, and when the power of the human word
₪ is exploited for selfish purposes, then happiness and morality shall indeed
| become searce in this world,