A Psalm. A song of David. ‏וו‎
‎nN 2) Peace of soul is an emana- [PEDO ‏תְהַלָה‎ TIT ye e

tion of Thy mighty acts, O God ‏דר‎ Prd

in Zion, and unto Thee the vow is * oF

made,

own tongues into the very instrument that brings about thelr downfall, The

poisonous arrow of their words rebounds upon them, Thus it is quite clese

that their downfall is an act of God. vrmun’ (Isaiah 24:20), denotes

physical movement. ‏אפרים מתנתדד‎ (Jeremich 31:17), as well as the form

5 used here, refers to inner agitation.
PSALM LXV
‏.למנצח מזסור .1 .ער‎ This psalm is dedicated to Him Who exalts

4 man to spiritual victory in carthly conflicts, and tho exaltation which has

soared towards David (71) on the wings of song is formed into a ‏.שיר‎

‘shu is the song in which the hand of God is beheld as it rules in the course
Vv of time and history. “Pw, the masculine form, asa rule, alludes to the

ultimate redemption of the future, while mv, the feminine gender, indicates

that the song deals with the present acts of God which will lead to the
‏ש‎ ultimate goal.

V. 2, "a 7}. Serenity and freedom from feelings of frustration,
from worry, fear or remorse— these can be attained only by trust in God
and with His help. To the thinking person, peace of soul is another manl-

v festation of the efficacy of God’s presence. It is God's acting on man’s
spirit. ‏אלהים בציון‎ ₪ a paraphrase for the name of ’n, 16, “God, as He
reveals His might in Zion.” This designation for God is appropriate to the

Vv theme of this psalm which, as we shall see, proclaims David's faith in the
future in which all of mankind will feel drawn to God and to His Sanctuary
in Israel. It is only in Zion that God is made known as the One Who is near

‎us all and Who reveals His presence within the spirit of every man, qh‏ ש
‎is another result of the impact of God’s presence upon the human‏ ישלם ‎‘71a‏

‎--- spirit. It is to Him that the spirit of man makes vows and resolutions con-

‎cerning the path he intends to have his life take. The knowledge that God

‎7-- indeed hears his pledges leaves man no peace until he has 8187096 the vow
| which he has taken before his Maker.