5, ‏בני איש .גם בני וגל .3 יר‎ are people who derive some advantage
7 through the fact that they can trace back their ancestry to men of dis-
tinction, who pride themselves and are respected not because of any merit
of their own but because of the achievements of some distinguished ancestor.
‏בני אד‎ includes the vast majority who lack such “pedigree.” ‘The message

‎which this psalm seeks to convey is of equally great importance for both‏ ש
‎the former and the latter category of human beings. For power and wealth‏
‎are overrated and worshipped not only by those who possess them, but to‏
‎the same extent — if not even more so — by those who lack them. It is‏

‎Vv precisely to those that are not endowed with great wealth that Psain 49
seeks to bring the proper understanding of the position actually occupied
by such outer trappings of power.

‎Vv ‘V. 4. ‘aioe. Te is not ‏חכמה‎ and Anan. Such a statement would
‘be too presumptuous, for it would imply a perfection of must and nnan
which exists only as an ideal. moon and ‏תבונות‎ are in the ploral and express

‏,צדקות ,גדיבות ‎the same thought as do the feminine plural forms such as‏ שי
‎things that‏ ,תבונה ‎and‏ הכמה ‎things indicating the concept of‏ .6 .1 660 גדולות
‎are produced by wisdom and understanding, things dut are appropriate to‏
‎these virtues. This feminine plural form indicates a unitary concept. It is‏

‎Vv wisdom in the multiplicity of its concrete application. See also Prov. 1:20,
9:1. moon are the teachings of wisdom as explicitly given, and nian are
the inferences that are to be drawn from the former (see Gen. 41:33).

‎“This understanding,” says the psalmist, “was not‏ .אטה וגל ,5 ‎V.‏ ש
‎derived. from my own wisdom. Exalted by Divine inspiration, it is to a‏

‎7--- higher Voice that I listen, and that which ordinarily would seem a ‘riddle’
to me scems plain and clear to my mind when the strains of my herp bring
me exaltation.” The riddle is “a closed book” to the mind, a “book” which

‎| the solution “opens”; therefore the word ‏פתת‎ is used to indicate the concept