5 to the teaching of our sages, David's sin with Bathsheba and his conduct
7 toward Uriah were violations of the spirit rather than of the letter of the legal
code of the Jand. (Sabbath 56b), But in the sight of God both these acts
of David were grievous crimes. "31 ‏,למעך‎ “Therefore,” David tells the Lord,
“Thou art justified in all that Thou hast told me through Nathan, and in

‎any decree that Thou wouldst wish to ordain against me. I willingly accept‏ ש
‎my punishment in advance because I am aware of my guilt." Nevertheless,‏
‎David asks God to be mindful of what he has said in the preceding verses.‏
‎is used several times in the Scriptures to denote “therefore.”‏ למען ‎(The word‏

‎v If, however, ‏למפך‎ should be interpreted, as it ordinarily is, to mean “so
that,” then ‏אדע‎ and ‏נגדי‎ in Verse 5 would have to be understood to denote.
not merely a tacit perception of one’s guilt, but an explicit vocal confession

‎“so that” all the world might know that the Lord is just in‏ למען ‎to others,‏ שי
‎any punishment that He might inflict upon David. However neither the‏
‎actual wording nor the facts in the case would support this latter inter‏
‎pretation, The criminal nature of David's acts was quite clear; the few‏

‎Vv extenuating circumstances were not nearly so obvious. Therefore we would
not be wrong if in this case, too, we would interpret ‏למעך‎ 10 mean “there-
fore").

‎Vv V. 7, 8. ‏בעוון וגו' ,הן אמת וגן'‎ ya, Here the word ny is spelled
with a full ‏;ו‎ therefore it is not both substantive and verb form of the ‏מקור‎
‎as in ‏השיבת מחרון אסך‎ (Psalm 85:3), That is, it does not mean “sin,” but

‎is ordinarily found in the‏ יחם ‎“to commit a sia,” “to be capable of sin.”‏ שי
‎inteansitive, meaning “to become warm”; here it is in the transitive and‏

‎---- means “to warm," “to ‏וטת את הבית ,טוח נמחות ",ספתנות‎ (Lev. 14:43) means
> “to throw a cover” over a person or object, “to cover.” In its noun form
| it denotes the inner part of man that is covered by the husk of the body,

‎or, better still, in the plural form, “those faculties and abilities that are