the 5% and the ‏עמים‎ allow themselves to be guided solely by motives of

self-aggrandizement and self-seeking greed without first taking into account

5 the requirements of the moral law. If this world were solely under the
- control of blind physical and mechanical forces, then the more ruthless
such “thoughts” and “counsels,” the more certain could they be of success,

However, as has been pointed out here, it is the Lord, the Author of the

moral Jaw, Who still rales over the world which He created and appointed

‎that His moral Law might be fulfilled. It is He too, Whose almighty power‏ 30 שי
‎still controls the course of nature and of history, and it is for this reason‏

‎that the “counsels of the nations” and the base motives guiding them in

‎their dealings with one another, shall ail come to naught. God has not

‎created the world in order to have wrong and violence reign there forevers‏ ש
‎thoughts and “counsels” motivated by such evil ends shall never have‏
‎prospect of success in His world.‏

‎as‏ ,עצת ה' ‎is eternally opposed by‏ עצת ‎For amy‏ ,עצת ה' ‎V. 11. Sa‏ ש
‎The plans which the nations have‏ .מחשבות לבו ‎are by‏ מחשבות עמים ‎the‏
‎cherished throughout history; namely, the quest for power based on tyranny‏

‎and despotism, face opposition by the plan of God which is to establish‏ ש
‎the kingdom of peace and bliss at long Iast under the supreme sovercigaty‏
‎of love and righteousness, of morality and selfless devotion to duty. This‏
‎stands firm for the future which He Himself will bring about, however‏ עצת ה"

‎Vv ‏"עולם"‎ veiled, unknown and far away that future may seem now. And
‏ספה מחשבות לבר‎ turned to every generation to accomplish this end. He will
not permit those who do not pay heed to “thoughts of God” in their dealings

‎with others but pursue solely greed and gain, to rejoice for long in the‏ ש
‎attainment of their goals. At the same time, the Lord will give His loving‏

‎a care to those sceds of goodness and truth that will become part of the
futuce—of His kingdom on earth.

‎Therefore the future belongs to that nation‏ .אשרי הגוי ‎‘ms‏ .12 .ער

‎| which, even as "3, a nation among other nations, understands that it owes