‎POE TY LLP SF LY‏ דחו 20000 1000 בש > ררה
‎eet‏ ד הל ‎gates of the daughter of Zion in “NTT‏

‎0% the vigorous, complete existence
granted me.

‎16) Wherever nations have 16
sunk down in the destruction which "7% +s we? ne Up ¢
they have prepared, wherever their SPRY LTT ?3 APS TTR
own foot has been caught in that ‏לה‎ 5
same net which they so craftily bid,

‎17) There the Lord has made : * 3

‎5, Himself known by the judgment We ‏מִקְפָ‎ Ming a7
which He has executed. “He en. smb yn wp rep ‏בל‎
‎snares the Jawless in the works
which his hands seek to bring

‎about"; this is the truth that be-‏ שי
‎comes apparent. [Selah], —‏

‎ya, “that 1 may remain capable of comprehending and‏ וגו' = .15 ךר ש
‎declaring all those ‘emanations of the acts revealing Thy rule’ (see Comm.‏
‎to Exod. 15:11) which are a beacon light to me in my wanderings among the‏

‎nations. Only when I shall no longer walk mo “awa, when 1 shall have‏ שי
‎shall I be able to rejoice‏ ,אגילה בישועתך ‎only then‏ ,בשערי בת ציון ‎returned‏
‎which shall restore me 40 vigorous, renewed life.” (Seo‏ יטועה ‎fally ia Thy‏
‎is in the singular with a mark indicating‏ תהלתיך .)14:13 ‎Comm. to Exod,‏

‎plural, thus telling us that, in all its multiplicity, God's rato still represents one‏ ש
‎harmonious whole,‏

‏ספור ‎wae, These are sentences from the‏ וגר' גודע ‎‘ay‏ ,17 ,16 ער

‎as they come to be understood by Israel in its wanderings among the‏ תהלות ה* שי
‎nations. Whenever, in the history of nations, peoples have fallen into the‏

‎-yery pit of destruction which they themselves had prepared for others, whea-

‎ever their own feet have become entangled in that trap of politics which they

‎4 themselves had slyly and eraftily set for their intended victims, there God has
been recognized in this judgment. This holds true also for the life of the
individual, when we see one ‏רשע‎ who has become ensnared in that which

‎-- ‏פות‎ own hands have “brought about’. Here the word ‏כפיר‎ is used instead of

‎| ‘v7, for “bands”, to denote the fact that "he had already attained it”; bo bas
already grasped within his hands that for which ha had atriuan ‏תוטל‎ an in