1) To Him Who grants victory. 1 - Ad 1
‏כ 6 לח טר לחר וי‎

A 2) The Lord will answer you ‏ישנ‎ MY OD ‏הז‎ pe 6
in the day of trouble; the Name of copy ‏שש אלמי‎
the God of Jacob will raise you | /
‏תס‎ high.
‏לרצון אמרי פי שיעשו ויחקקו לדורות ואל יהיו קורין בהם כקורין בספרי מירום אלא‎
‏,יהיו קורין והוגין בהן ונוטלין שכר עליהן כנגעים ואהלות (מדרש)‎ “May my songs.
be composed for the benefit of future generations and may they be pre~
served for them, Let them not be read like ordinary poetry, but Jet them be

‎studied with the same rewarding reffection as are the most weighty parts‏ ב
צורי וגסולי ‎of religious Law.” ‘11 The Lord, to Whom all the future belongs,‏
‎has proven Himself to David as a Rock and Redeemer, He shaped his‏
‎personality and ordained his destiny and He—as stated at the end of Psalm‏
‎18—has enabled and inspired David by this revelation in his own life to‏

‎4 be the singer of Israel and of all mankind.

‎PSALM XX

‎v V. 1, In Psalm 18, looking back over his life, David stated that
God helped him only because he was loyal to God's Law. In Psalm 19 David
expressed what this Law had meant to him in the past and the significance

‎which it still held for him, Psalm 20 is addressed to David by the people of‏ שי
‎Israet proclaiming that they, too, have come to understand his relationship‏
‎to God and that, knowing this, they wish to tender him their sentiments of‏
‎loyalty and affection.‏

‎v V. 2. ‏,ביום צרה. .יענך ח' וגל‎ “ia the day of trouble.” According to
the sages, this is the time of dire need, when all circumstances seem to point
to inevitable disaster. ‘They illustrate this by citing the parable of a child

‎on a long journey with his father. The child is tired and anxious to know‏ שי
‎when they will reach their destination, and asks his father, “When shall we‏
בני סימן זה יהא בידך ‎OX‏ ראית ‎arrive at the city?” And the father replies,‏
‎“Remember it well, my son, you‏ ,בית הקברות לפניך דע כי המדינה קרובה ‎yb‏

‎Vv will not see the city until you will have first beheld the cemetery; only when

‎— you will see graves before your eyes will you be near the city.” "a1 ‏:ישגבך‎
‎‘The Lord will give you help once your distress has become urgent. But it

‎-- is the ov, the recognition, awareness of and trust in the ‏,להי יעקב‎ in God

‎| as reveated to Jacob in his trials and tribulations which will give you the
inner exaltation that you must have in order ta nersevace nntil helo with came