---  .. - ‏ה‎ -
destruction.
11) Thou makest me to know ae OS MR Gorqin 1
Iam, whatever I wish to accomplish, lies clearly betore His eyes, I shall
hold fast to this conviction wan, forever, and shall never again allow myself
to succumb to even one moment of weakness.”
5 ‏,בי מימיני בל אמוט‎ "1 have now recognized God as being ‏,ימיני‎ my
- Right Hand which supports me. I shall never again forsake Him, or let
myself be moved to waver in my faith.”
‘V.9. | ‏,לכן שמח וגו"‎ “Only now,” says David, “that I am certain that
whatever may come to me in 1016, be it momentous or insignificant, was sent
Vv me directly by God, can the apex of outward happiness give me true joy.
It is tue that one can rejoice even without God, but one can never be truly
happy without Him, ‏,כבודי‎ even my position as King, with all its external
‏ש‎ pomp, would leave my heart cold if I did not know that it was given me by
the Lord Himself (See Chapter 14:7). ‘31 ‏בשרר‎ Ak, even the thought of that
time when ail this ‏,כבוזד‎ 811 this rich and great life on earth will come to an
end, and only ‏,בשרי‎ my physical remains, shall be left, holds no terror for
Vv me, The Lord is *2° in death as well as in life. He is my Right Hand which
sustains me and which I will not forsake even when I die.”
‘V.10. "ut ‏,כי לא תעזב‎ “for Thou wilt net let ‏,נפשי‎ my soul, be buried
‏שי‎ together with ‏,בשרי‎ my flesh." Thou wilt not suffer ‏,הסידך‎ that man whose life
was filled with devotion to Thee, to sink into complete oblivion. The spirit of
him who has sought Thy presence in such unselfish love shall not rot in the
grave. ‏,הסידך‎ the ‏כתיב‎ is ‏,חסידיך‎ the various concrete ways in which men prove
Vv that they are ‏חסידי ה'‎ in the various situations that life may bring. That which
imparts to them this character of ‏,חסד‎ the ‘ron in all ‏חסירים‎ is solely that one
Godly, Godlike, God-seeking trait that is equally present in everyone and that
Vv is united with the physical shell of the body only for the purpose of fulfilling
mab’s calling on earth. The earthly remains lie down in the grave, confidently
---- pad awaiting their next call from God, while He lifts the ‏,"חסידות"‎ which has
lived in the body beyond the grave, 40 His heights.
V.AL. ‏תודיעני וגו"‎ “Thus Thou makest me to know a path which is
| nothing but life. This path knows of no loss, grief, death or decay; it moves