of the word ‏ענוים‎ and the way in which it should be read here might give us
some explanation as to why the humble had to suffer so long that they almost
concluded that Providence had forsaken them. It is read ‏,ענוים : קרי‎ but
it is spelled ‏.עניים :כתיב‎ They were indeed ‏,ענוים‎ “the humble”, and not men
of violence, but they were so only because they were ‏,עניים‎ “dependent and
powerless", Had they attained power and high position they would have
3, become guilty of the same sinful misuse of might and glory that the tyrants
have perpetrated. Therefore they were made to suffer in order ta experience
at first hand the pain of oppression by despots’ heels; they were to see the
stat of violence rise to shining heights and then suddenly fall, so, should
they come to power in their turn, they might make more humane use of

‎might and remain more modest in their good fortune,‏ שוטונר שי
‎comes to the fore here in a most unusual‏ חנן ‎The root‏ .14 יר
‎“a cloud”), in its basic meaning, denotes “a‏ ,ענן ‎(related to‏ חנך ‎manner.‏
‎Vv generous favor”. The word yn particularly implies the idea of endowing‏
‎someone with exceptional means and faculties for very specific purposes.‏
‎(Jer, 31:1). See Commentary to Gen.‏ מצא חן במדבר ‎‘Thus it is said of Israci,‏
‎The word occurs especially with reference to an endowment with mental‏ .6:8 ש
‎faculties. See Commentary to Num. 6:25. It is used in this manner also in‏
‎‘Verses 2 and 3 of Psalm 67, According to its context, we think that it must‏
‎have the same meaning here. “Behold,” says 19308, “behold my poverty and‏
‎(see‏ עני ‎Vv my position of dependence in society"—this is the real meaning of‏
‎Comm. to Deut, 15:5)—"which I suffer because of those who are the enemies‏
‎of my existence and my aspirations. Behold my misery which will not leave me‏
‎as Jong as their convictions and their ways of life are in‏ ,שונאי ‎Vv while they are‏
‎such opposition to my own, so that they really wish that I might ‘cease exist-‏
‎see Comm. to Deut. 16:22), Thus I constantly walk alongside‏ שנא ‎ing’ (for‏
‎canst‏ מרוממי ‎the mp "yz, the precipice of destruction, over which only Thou‏ ש
‎raise me. Behold this my state which is an inseparable part of my mission in‏
‎grant me the mental faculty, the perception‏ ,הננני ‎the midst of the nations and‏ ————
‎and understanding so essential for my perseverance in the position Thou hast‏
‎assigned me and for the proper discharge of the task which Thou hast set‏ |

‎for me."