my soul into such a state of agitation that I could no longer refrain from
ttering my thoughts.”

V. 5. ‏.הודיעני וגו"‎ As David went on, constantly brooding and
meditating upon the problem that troubled him, the question, rather than
remaining a quest for an explanation of the seemingly unjust distribution of
material wealth on earth, crystallized into an inquiry as to the actual purpose

5, of man. David considered it quite possible that, while others might be
₪ blessed with much better fortune throughout their lives, he himself might
have to spend all of his days, which might come to an end relatively soon,

in precarious circumstances. This brought David to ask just what the true

purpose of man is, whether good fortune or the lack thereof had any bearing

‎on his ultimate destiny; that is, whether this destiny would not be entirely‏ ש
‎dependent upon man’s material circumstances on earth. If that were the‏

‎case, man’s destiny itself would be short-lived, since man’s earthly lot ends

‎together with the brief span of his life here below. Therefore David's‏ שי
‎‘ayn. It is not David's‏ ה' קצי וגו' ‎question is expressed in the entreaty‏

‎wish to know what age he would be destined to attain, how many more years

‎he would yet have to live. This question would have little importance and‏ ש
‎could hardly have troubled him so deeply. Moreover, it would be answered‏

‎‘by ‏הנה טפחות וגו'‎ in the next verse, where it is stated by David himself that

‎the actual span of human life on earth is infinitely small. What David does

‎desire is to find out whether his existence bas any purpose at all. The‏ ש
‎np‏ קצי ‎word 7p hero is used not to denote an “end,” but a “goal” as in‏

‎(Daniel‏ לקץ הימים ,)28:3 ‎(ibid.‏ קץ ‎ov‏ להשך ,)6:11 ‎(lob‏ כי אאריך נפשי

‎Alll these quotations do not refer to an “end” of days—for, after all,‏ .)12:13 ש
‎the “days” are not meant to come to an end—but to the “goal” toward‏

‎which the course of time and history is directed. A similar thought is found

‎non. What David means to say in Verse 5, then,‏ לקץ .2:3 ‎in Habakkuk‏ ש
‎would be as follows, “Make me know my goal, my ultimate destiny, and‏

‎— what the measure of my days is; namely, the standard by which I must
measure the value and the possible permanent significance of my days. I

‎wish to know ‏,מה חדל אני‎ not whether or not 1 am short-lived, but how

‎| short-lived I am-—to what degree I am short-lived.”