-.------- " ‏לרש‎
‎them that seek my hurt be covered = ‏לס"‎ RIP MRAP ‏הרפה‎
‎with reproach and shame.
him. Indeed, God had advised David that, as a consequence of his trans-
gression, he would have to experience much pain and sorrow.

V. 12, 13. Sa ‘pbx, Notwithstanding the gravity of his transgres-

15, sion, David asks God to remain near him even now as He sits in judgment

0 over him for his sin, David prays that He, Whom he can call ‏אלקי'‎ “his God,”
Who has trained and guided him from his earliest youth, might hasten to
his aid even now, so that he might succeed in elevating himself once again
from the low level to which he had permitted himself to sink, Let Dayid’s

‎foes, who maliciously rejoice over his misstep, be deceived in their belief‏ שי

‎that God bas now abandoned him forever. The sages comment in Sota 21a

‎that ‏,דחגג"זאהיתופל‎ the enemies of David, had forgotten that mya 7320 ‏עבירה‎

‎person has previously had nothing else‏ ב ‎per. That is, if‏ עבירה מכבה תורה שי

‎‘but ma to his credit, if previously he had always practiced righteousness

‎and morality but is a stranger to the Torah, and then commits one grave

‎sin, it is most difficult for him to rise up again from the depth to which he

‎Vv has sunk through this one misstep. But if, in addition to performing ‏,מצות‎

‎he has also engaged in the study of the mn, then the spiritual energy and

‎the understanding of Divine truth which he has gained through his perusal

‎of God’s word will help him rise again even from the deep pit of depravity.‏ שי
‎David himself is a glorious example of this truth,‏

‎(Thus to the passage in Jer. 16:11 with regard to Israel's defection:

‏הלואי אותי עובו ותורתי ‎our sages also comment:‏ ואותי עזבו ואת תורתי לא שמרר

‎v ‏.שמרו שאלו תורתי שמרו מתוך שהיו מתעסקין בה היתה מחזירן אצלי‎ “Would that

‎when they forsook Me, they would at least have continued the study of My

‎for such spiritual occupation with the Torah would eventually have‏ ,תורה

‎Vv brought them back to Me,” or ‏המאור שבה היה מחזירן למוטב‎ “the light shining

‎forth from the Torah would have led them to mend their ways” (sce ‏ילקוט‎

‎— to Jeremiah 9:12. ‏מ"ר‎ Lamentations ‏.פתיחה‎ It is for this reason that Israel's
tempters have always sought first of all to banish the knowledge and study

‎--- of the mn from among the rising young generation.)

‎| When David's enemies thought him lost forever after his transgression,
they failed ta tale inte ‏זהמהתתה‎ the ‏תורה‎ 4 * "0 ttn 5