silent in the face of (or before) a sad event or experience”; to be afraid
or unable 10 utter protest against such an experience. Literally, it means
5. to recognize, against one’s will, that we have received only that which
befits us, that which seems most “like us." In this case, the fact that
the verb is in the Niphal is indicated by the Dagesh in the ‏ד‎ and should read
wp. Perhaps the form of wp was chosen bere in order to bring out, at
‏שי‎ the same time, the significance of the verb in its Kaf form; ie., the end in
the grave which will finally be theirs is nothing but the punishment which

befitted their way of life, ‏.אפילו בחייהם קרוים מתים‎
V. 19. "131 ‏.תאלמנה‎ Here ends the description, begun in Verse 11,
Vv of the suffering which makes David appear completely forsaken, for which
reason he 15 then so unkindly judged by other men. Now, David hopefully
and trustingly turns to the Lord for help in the midst of bis trouble. In
‏שי‎ this verse and in the verses that follow, David rectifies the complaint which
he himself had made, and at the same time exposes the baselessness of
the arguments of those who, like his opponents, whisper (Verse 14) and
erroncously conclude that suffering and hostility can come only to a person
Vv who has been abandoned by the Lord because of his wickedness. They
do not know how close, in fact, the Lord is to the very person whom they
regard as having been forsaken by Him. They know nothing of the quiet
Vv bliss and secret peace which the righteous man, in the midst of all his
suffering, derives from God’s nearness of which He deems him worthy,
“The lips of deceit must be silent, these lips that speak arrogance in pride
and contempt against a righteous man because they see him suffer
‏ש‎ constantly.” “Pride”; because they think they are so infinitely happier and
better than he is, and “contempt”; because they believe him to be 50 much

unhappier and worse than they themselves are.

--- V. 20, They do not know ‏מה וג"‎ how rich, how abundant and
| inexhaustible (see Commentary to Exod. 34:7) Thy goodness is, which