V. 5. ‏,ישא וגל‎ Only he whose cvery act, thought, desice and word

is in conformity with the dictates of the moral Law can expect that the

Lord, Who gave that Law and Who also controls all the physical conditions

necessary for life on carth, will grant him ‏,ברכה‎ prosperity in whatever he

does in this world. Nay more, such a person can expect ‏[צדקה‎ Le. tho

5, Lord will give him whatever will serve his genuine welfare. ‏צדקה‎ is that

0 benevolent care which God shows us, when He withbolds from us a gift

which, if granted, would prove harmful to us in the end. (See Comm. on

Gea, 15:6, 18:17—19). He may expect this loving care, ‏מאלהי ישעו ,צדקה‎

from the God of his salvation (literally, from the God of his real, actual

Vv existence). For it is to God, and not to his own goals and ways, that man
Tooks for his salvation.

V. 6. ‘wi at. Such, however, is only the generation that “seeks

דרש ה' ‎after Him,” that tums to Him for “help and guidance.” The phrase‏ ש

would denote both “secking Him” and “tumniog to Him for guidance.’*

It is quite obvious to any thinking person that we can expect God’s help

‎and assistance only if we tive in accordance with His teachings, This is the‏ שי

‎which, as the end of Psalm 22 has it, will be led by the course of history‏ דור

‎to consecrate itself to God and to His service, wit is read as if it were

‎im the plural form, and spelled as the singular, Each nation may still retain‏ ש

‎its own characteristics and peculiarities, but must always use them and the

‎way of life based upon them oaly in conformity with the supreme Divine

‎moral Law, It is this spiritual and moral subordination to the One God and

‎v to His Law that unites all the diverse cultures and national entities of the

‎world into one harmonious whole. It turns the ‏דורשין‎ into wor. Mankind,

‎with all its varied cultures and civilizations, but all seeking God, is tumed.

‎Vv into one united group, all serving Him, apy ‏פניך .מבקשי פניך‎ and apy

‎are connected by the accent. The ‏טפחא‎ in ‏,פניך‎ since it follows the minx,

‎_ has connective force, niwp, By virtue of its position in the middle of the

‎ee word, it can be readily distinguished from the separating xnow, which always

‎| precedes the word, as in ‏.זה‎ Therefore, this is the wit ‏,דור‎ these are the