Von A owiehe ee ye ee Ne
5, that Law teaches us to strive, in and through God, for freedom from those
constraints imposed upon man by sensuality and the amenities of human soci-
ety. See Yeshurun, loc. cit. Hence those hymms of the Temple praising the
> presence of God on carth and the usion with God of all chings earthly are
played on the harp of seven strings. The song of the days of the Messiah, when

‎final redemption will come to all, sounds forth from the instrument of eight‏ שי
‎strings. The harp of ten strings, however, is reserved for the song which shall‏
‎rise on that day when the world that is to be will be united in one harmonious:‏

‎whole, We feel that the above has made it clear how the contents of this‏ ש
‎psalm and of Chapter 12, seeking redemption in God from human and social‏
‎the “eighth‏ ,טמינית ‎annihilation, indeed, are in accord with the concept of‏
‎string” of the harp. .‏

‎4 V. 2. ‏אף -ה' אל באפך וג"‎ 15 derived fcom ‏אנף‎ (related to "ys, “branch”;
aay, “berry.” Both of these denote the coming to external view of some-
thing that was collected within, "pn, “sham”, denotes a situation where

‎there actually is nothing of substance within and only a superficiality is‏ שי
‎literally‏ ,חמה ‎then, is the outward expression of anger, while‏ (אף ‎apparent).‏
‎(see‏ הוכיה ‎meaning “heat”, “flame”, is the wrath that comes from within.‏

‎Comm. to Lev. 19:17) means to bring an unpleasant fact to the mind of‏ ש
‎someone else to influence the perceptive faculty of a human being either‏
בי את אשר יאתב ה' :)3:12 ‎through words or through actions, such as (Prov.‏
‎(Piel) is the influence upon his will, to cause him, by‏ יסר ‎tap and elsewhere.‏

‎Vv means of pain and suffering, to change the course he has followed heretofore.
‘Thus we have here this plea: “May God not find it necessary to give outward

‎—_ expression to His anger in order to bring man to realize that he has erred;
and may He not, in His righteous wrath, condemn him to suffer continued
pain in order that he might mend his ways.”

‎| ‏.הננר וגל .3 מ‎ He prays that God ‏טבוח‎ iu him renewed ‏זה תפז‎