to tum into swift pursuers.

V.12. | ‏.לקי וגו' זעם וגו"‎ byt apparently does not denote the intransi-
- tive emotion of anger, bue its consequences and effects upon its object. Thus
while other expressions of anger, such as ‏,אנף‎ 4X, ‏,חרה‎ etc., being intransitive,
are connected with their objects only by means of prepositions such as —3,
and —by, the word opt has its object in the accusative, such as ‏זעמה ישראל‎
(Nom. 23:7), ‏יזעמוהו לאומים‎ (Prov. 24:24), except where it occurs in the
Vv Book of Daniel (11:30). Thus, also in the passive form, we have ‏זעום ה' יפול‎
bw (Prov, 22:14); ‏פנים נועמים‎ (ibid. 25:23); ‏איפת רזון זעומה‎ (Micah 6:10),
It appears to be related to pit, irom which is derived the term xan, which,
‏שי‎ in Rabbinic literature, signifies something disgusting or degrading adhering
to a subject; thus we read (in Job 33:20) with reference to the stricken man:
on’ ‏,וזהמתו חיתו‎ “His soul makes even bread seem loathsome to him”, Thus
“a ‏זעום‎ would be “he who can feel God's indignation cling to him.” ‏איפה זעומה‎
Vv is the false measure upon which the curse of God rests. ‏מבים נועמים.‎ is the face
‘upon which the mark of insinuated slander ‏לשון סתר‎ is noticeable. It is said
here, then, that God is a righteous Judge and that He, Who is the source of all
Vv forces and Who holds them all in His hands ‏בכל יום ,אל‎ oy, makes His
indignation felt each day. God will not wait until that great day of judgment
when 311 evil shalt wither before His rage to make the wicked, false man feel
the force of His indignation. He will let the man of evil seose His displeasure
Vv even now. The wicked man will sense it concretely each day that God is
displeased with him, that he is not upon the right path, even if it is only the
‘uneasiness, the voice of his conscience, that voice of God within man, that
‏ש‎ will trouble him. The ‏לבות וכליות‎ yma is a ‏שופט צדק‎ and ny ‏בכל‎ ot. The

wicked man feels it each day that he lacks God’s favor.
_ ‏לא ישוב וגו' ,13 יר‎ 5x, As can be scen from the preceding reference
to ‏,אל זועם בכל יום‎ the subject of the thought expressed here is he to whom.
God makes His indignation felt each day, “If that man will still not retum,

| but instead shall whet his sword,” etc.
Sy ‏גו‎ tan ‏הרו‎ ala ‘Thon he hae ani ‏וו‎