NN  -- ESS” OT ART) ed BS US ‏שו''כ גו"‎
for, O my Master? My hope is ‏ל הא ו‎
in Thee. ‏קאי‎ He

oN See
ever more closely both spiritually and morally in everything he does here
below. It is for the attainment of this destiny that he was 233, as stated in
Verse 6, given so exalted a position among all the other creatures on earth.
‘The spiritual and moral values so acquired will indeed reach beyond the
‏טמחות‎ of his days and the temporal nawre of his world of ‏.הלד‎ In fact,
with that part of himself that is immortal, he partakes of the eternity of his
Creator, This ideal of ‏צלם‎ should guide every human beiog—w'x ‏יתהלך‎
‎Tike ‏אמו ואביו תיראו‎ wR. However, ‏הבל יהמיון‎ TR instead of striving for this
lofty goal by means of eatnest self-improvement, “they” pursue only vanities

5 with noisy superficiality. These are vanities which the mortal must leave
bebind him at the end of his stay on earth, if they have not left him behind
sooner. He will then have spent all bis life for trivia without knowing who
will reap the benefits accruing from them. On the other hand, those values

‎by whose acquisition and application he would have confirmed and in-‏ ש
‎creased his likeness to God would have been his permanent acquisitions, even‏
‎as they would have enriched that part of him that is immortal, ‘This is the‏
‎answer which David found to the questions posed in Verses 5 and 6. Now‏

‎Vv he knows ‏,קצו‎ the purpose of his life on earth. It is the task to be and to
become a ‏.צלם אלקי"‎ He knows ‏מדת ימיר‎ the standard by which he must
measure the value and significance of the days he has spent in God's

‎world; namely, what he has acquired during and by dint of his life in pro-‏ ש
‎that‏ מה חדל ‎portion to the magnitude of his task. And, lastly, he knows x‏
‎only that part of him is transitory which was not absorbed in the discharge‏
‎of his task.‏

‎Vv V. 8 "rans. “And now that I have gained this understanding,”
"A ‏,קוה--מה קויתי‎ in the Piel form with the accusative means “to await,”
“to strive or hope to the end that something be given us or come to us”

‎v (see Commentary to Gen, 1:9). “Now that 1 have gained this understand-
ing,” says David, “I no longer yearn for those material possessions which
others ‏ולא ידע מי אספם‎ Tax”, This new awareness has led me to regard all of my

‎Vv life, which I must complete ‘in the likeness of the Lord’ as a term of service
to the Lord, and I have come to see Him as ‏,אדני‎ my Master” (Cf, Com-
mentary to Gen. 1:26). “But even if I am to be able merely to strive to
discharge this task," David continues, “I need God's hetp and His love,
which disciplines 85 it favors its recipients, and I must turn to Him in

‎| much