- ‏ה‎ ---- ---  ---.-
David knows that he has been called upon to serve these Divine purposes
(Verse 1). The ‏רשפ‎ does not know that the outpouring of God’s pure,
unclouded love belongs only to the heavens, where creatures of God shine
in the eternal splendor of perfection given them by their Creator when
‏ש‎ they were called into being. It is said of these bodies that ‏לא יסבן בלכתן‎
(Ezech. 1:9) they are unable to deviate from the track of the orbits assigned
them. But the earthly world, which develops beneath the skies but reaches
‏עד שחקים קט שי‎ to the clouds, belongs to God's ‏,אמונה‎ His “faithfulness” in
training the inhabitants of this world. For unlike the heavenly bodies, the
human creatures peopling the earth were given the choice to serve the Lord
out of their own free will, and therefore do have the possibility of deviating
‏ש‎ from the orbits of goodness and right in which the Lord takes pleasure.
‘Therefore men on earth are in need of Divine training and discipline
‏חסד)‎ and ‏,אמונה‎ see Commentary to Gen. 15:6, 47:29, Exodus 34:6, 7).
‏ש‎ The wicked man does not know that evil was given glamor only to
lure men and that God gave man the opportunity to arrive and practice at
evil only so that he might have the chance to elect of his own free will
to do good and to shun evil (see Commentary to Gen. 4:7). He does not
Vv ‘know that if it is indeed possible to disregard the moral law and if the
righteous suffer at the hands of brutal men, this i all part of che destiny
ordained by God for mankind. For it is God's will that men voluntarily
Vv elect to obey His moral Law under which the kingdom of loyalty to duty
and thus the kingdom of undisturbed peace and blessings shall hold sway
— on earth. Nor is the wicked man aware of the fact that even the troubles
that befall the righteous at the hands of the wicked only serve to help bring
about that kingdom of goodness and salvation. For these tribulations are
| all part of that training which God, Who in His loving-kindness desires to