Cin aah rae - ‏אמוני‎
‎worthiness has disappeared from TONS Bp ORO EMD
among the sons of man.
PSALM XI
‏על השמינות .1 .ער‎ mind. See Chapter 6:1. As stated in Psalm 6,
the cight-stringed harp is dedicated to the truth of ‏באולה‎ held aloft by Judaism,
3 a truth which guarantees us the belp of the Lord when all the other helpers
fail. Psalm 6 shows us how one man, from the dephts of complete mental
and physical exhaustion, rises on the wings of song to regain his confidence
in God's saving power. Psalm 12 depicts the struggle for faith in God's
eventual help although the state of affairs of human society seems hopeless.
v ‘The motive of “selfless love, loyalty and truth” bas dissppeared from man’s
dealings with his brothers. To the Psalmist this is an ominous sign of a nadir
of degeneration that Jeayes scant hope for spontaneous recovery. The most
Vv dangerous symptom of this moral corruption is the complete depravity of /
human speech. This gift of God, instead of being used as the most salutary ‏ו‎
‎and sacred means of cementing human relationships, has become the most ‏ו‎
‎pemicious tool in the service of ruthless selfishness. Glibness reigns supreme |
‏ש‎ and generates misery agalast which there is no defense. This is the moment ‏ו‎
‎at which God chooses to intervene in order to save the moral strecture of |
human society.
‏שי‎ Vv. 2. "2 pwn, “Save”, or, more accurately, give us new life,
physically and morally whole (w, see Psalm 9:15), O Lord, Whose very
Name is an indication of Thy readiness to grant a new and better future. |
(See Commentary to Gen. 2:4), ‘Pom ‏גמר ,כי גמר‎ “has come to an end”,
4 it has ceased to exist and to function. ‘Yor, ‏חסד‎ is not x withdrawal from the
world and its pleasures, but rather indicates active, complete and selfless
devotion to the welfare of those about us. A ‘ron is that person whose basic
‏ש‎ character is formed and govemed by such selflessness, But today, says the
Psalmist, there is no trace Ieft of that type of loving concer for the happiness
--- of others. Whatever is done nowadays ostensibly for the sake of the common
good is actually motivated by clever calculation of the advantages such acts
of supposed altruism will bring to him that initlates them, ‏,כי פסו אמונים‎ and,
| together with the disappearance of the attitude of the ‘ron, ‏,אמונים‎ trustwor-