ee ----- 1
grave, and his seed shall inherit TR
the earth,
formerly such progress was inhibited or prevented by transgression.” (See
Commentary to Gen. 24:21. Num. 14:20).

2S, ‏האיש ,12,13 .שר‎ top, Verses 8---11 told us how God's ways teach
and disciptine man. The thought expressed in Verses 12 and 13 is as follows:
“He who fears the Lord, who therefore lets His ways lead him to spiritual
and moral perfection and whose pilgrimage through earthly life, guided by
God, is therefore a steady progress in all that is good, shall receive his just

v reward. When his earthly wanderings are done, be will enter, through the
gates of death, into the realm of true and eternal salvation. And when the
course of history on earth shall have reached its goal—which is to train

Vv and educate mankind—the descendants of these God-fearing men will come
into the inheritance of all the past of this world. Thus immorality, both
in this world and in the next, shall be the reward of him who fears the Lord.

‘na’ ‏,יורנד בדרך‎ By means of His workings, God makes man realize

4 that the paths which are in conformity with His will are the only ones that
are good and true. Knowing this, man, who at first may have trod these
paths only with great reluctance, now walks in them out of bis own free

Vv will, with joy and devotion, because the will of the Lord is also his own
desire, See Commentary to Num. 10:36,

yon sia ‏.נפשו‎ The basic meaning of ‏לון‎ is “to seck shelter from
trouble," thus, “to spend the night at some lodging, Sec Commentary to

4 Exod. 15:24. Forms of this vero also appear in other places in the
Scriptures such as ‏אתי תלין מסוגתי‎ (Job 19:4), ny ‏בצוארו ילין‎ (Job. 41:14),
yon ‏בקרב חכמים‎ (Prov. 16:31), ‏בקרבך מחשבות אונך‎ pon Ceremiah 4:14),

‎(Zechariah 5:4), meaning, in each of these instanecs, “to‏ ולנה בתוך ביתו שי
‎find one’s place and rest, unharmed, in a spot that is safe from attack and‏

‎—_ disturbance.” The thought expressed in Verse 13 is that, while the body
is enshrouded by night in the grave, the soul escapes this darkness, Un-
touched by gloom, it dwells in the spheres of the only true “good” dhere

‎| is—in the undisturbed bliss of which it can partake only after it has completed
ee Fee ee ee