‎ifus we read‏ .בהעותו והכחתיר בשבם אנשים ובנגעי בני אדם והסדי לא יסור ממנר וו

‎in Psalm 80:17, ‏,ועל בן אמצת לך‎ “Look down upon the son whom Thou hast

‎girded with strength.” Thus God also refers to Israel as ‏בני‎ in Ex, 4:22, 23

‎34 and elsewhere. This psalm expresses the historical experiences of the people

‎of Israel during its wanderings among the peoples of the world. This path

‎through history is strewn with trials and tribulations, but it is also replete with

‎Iessons and possibilities for moral improvement. Israel passes before all

‎the great powers in world history—or rather, these powers pass ia review

‎Vv before Israel. These nations leave a trail of ruins upon their path to triumph

‎and Israel must suffer at the hands of them all, Israel sees them all rise—but

‎then it is also witness to their downfall. And in every such catastrophe Israel

‎discems the hand of God, heralding His ultimate judgment, “placing His‏ שי

‎throne into position”, as it were, for the judgment of the world. It is Israel

‎whom God has appointed to be the messenger of that era of His kingdom

‎on earth. ‘The superscription 12 ‏על-מות‎ , in whatever way it may be inter-

‎Vv preted, is in accordance with this idea. “Immortality,” “the eternal vigor of

‎youth,” “the secret of the future” to “the son alone” simply means that only

‎‘the “son"—only Israel, will enjoy such immortality because it is the only

‎‘one to submit willingly to the guidance of its Father. It is Israel alone that‏ שי

‎has watked, and still walks, immortally and forever youthful, among the

‎nations of the world that have fallen and all those that are still to crumble,

‎Israel alone has preserved the secret of world history, because it alone has

‎Vv seen and understood the hidden workings of the hand of its God, just as only
a son is capable of truly understanding the secret ways of bis father,

‎‘Vv. 2, ‏.אודת ה' וג‎ The word ‏הודה‎ is derived from ‏,ידה‎ related to ‏,ידע‎

‎Vv see Commentary to Lev. 5:5, Essentially it denotes a steong and vigorous

‎expression of our thoughts and feelings as regards a thing or a person, thus,

‎--- primarily, “to acknowledge.” ‏החדה ל-‎ is to disclose to someone the feelings

‎which we have for him in our hearts, “to thank" and “to do homage”, ama,

‎with the accusative, and used here in reference to God, as ‏,אוד ה'‎ means “to

‎| acknowledge God", to proclaim the awareness and recognition of His exist-