eee
V.3. ‏ימי וגל‎ ‘The psalm tells us that the power ruling the earth
is not a blind physical force of nature, but the Lord Who proclaimed the
2S, rule of His moral Law in His kingdom on earth is the Ruler. Who, thea,
shall prosper on this earth which is intended to be God’s holy mountain?
“Tndeed, who can even stand upon a ground on which every spot is conse-
crated and sacted to Him and dedicated to the fulfiliment of His moral Law?"
Vv ‘V. 4. ‏נקי (נקי ונר‎ is superficial cleanliness, freedom from dirt.
‘14 is inner purity, describing a body from which every impure element has
‘been “picked out.” 4p is the hand that takes hold of a possession. Therefore,
Vv he whose possessions are pure, who calls no ill-gotten gains his own, who
is pure of mind and harbors no impure thoughts within his heart, ‏,אקר וגן'‎
‏נפשר‎ is the ‏קרי‎ but the ‏,כתיב‎ spelled wos. It is read as ‏נסשי‎ 1. 6, He who
‏שי‎ respects his soul because it really belongs to Me and therefore will not
Jift it up to anything that is vain or transitory, but will have it strive only for
goals that are noble, ends that are neither based on vanity nor doomed to
Vv decay. ‏נקי כפים.‎ and ‏בר לבב‎ symbolize the ‏,מצות שבין אדם לחברו‎ social justice
in both theory and practice. ‏אשר לא נשא לשוא נפשי‎ represents the ‏מצות‎
‏אדם למקום‎ PSY dutifol loyalty to God, keeping one’s soul ‏(נפש)‎ far away
‏שי‎ from any ‏שקץ ,טומאת‎ and ‏ולא נשבע למרמה .תועבה‎ is not one who merely
does not actually pesjure himself, but one who never uses his word for
purposes of deception, Such a man will not swear falsely in order to deceive
‏ש‎ others, nor is he a hypocrite who feigns love for God with deceitful intent,
In Isaiah 19:18 and Zephaniah 1:5, ‏,הנשבעים לה' ,ונשבעות לה'‎ forms of
-- ‏ל-‎ papa are used to express the oath of allegiance with which one swears
fealty to a Liege lord, Thus ‏השבע למרמה‎ can also mean, “to swear allegiance
to deceit,” to pledge the oath of fealty to deceit and deception, and to make
| fraud and falschood one’s guiding principle,