“Tet denotes the wish, “May He ever make David find the proper way without
hesitation, may God put no obstacle in the way to his quick perception of
what is right.” David feels that he needs Divine assistance even for the unhesi-
tating perception of the right path. Therefore the two forms are combined.

2S, Certainly man himself must do the major part of the work in the effort to
discern what is right, He must exert a great deal of mental effort on his own if
the is to derive the proper guidance in any given situation from the wellsprings
of Divine wisdom opened for us in the Torah. Therefore ‏.היסר : קרי‎ In this,
however, we can hardly ever succeed without the special favor of Divine

6 כתיב ‎and‏ קרי ‎smn. (For a detailed explanation of‏ :כתיב ‎aid, Therefore‏ ש
‎Commentary to Exodus 21:8),‏

V. 10. rma ‏בפיהו וגו'‎ pr ‏.כי‎ Let us compare the accentuation in

Vv Chaps. 6:3, 7:9, 8:3 and elsewhere, and we shall come to the conclusion

that ‏כי אין בפיהו נכונה‎ and ‏קרבם הוות‎ are not two separate principal sentences,

but two clauses of which one is subordinate to the other and which, together

‎the‏ ,פי .קרבם ‎can refer only to‏ ,פיהו ‎form one entity, The singular form,‏ שי

‎mouth, the means of expression of the ‏,קרב‎ of the spirit. p22 denotes that

‎which is founded upon truth. ‘Thus we have ‏והנה אמת נכון הדבר‎ (Deut. 17:4).

‎“to‏ הוה ‎“to be”,‏ ,היה ‎is the Piel infinitive of ma, “to become”, related to‏ הוות.

‎Vv bring into being". ‏הוות‎ is the constant planning to bring something into being,

‎it indicates brooding over something. “Their spirit is constantly scheming";

‎therefore there is not one word of truth in the utterances of that spirit. The

‎mouth does not utter that which is founded upon objective truth, but only‏ ש

‎that which is expedient for the execution of the scheme upon which they

‎brood constantly. Thus ‏ההות‎ is frequently found together with utterances of

‎speech. ‏ודורשי דעתי דברו הוות‎ (Ps. 38:13). “They speak that upon which

‎Vv their spirit is brooding.” ‏הוות תחסוב לשונך‎ (Ps. 52:4). nna pw> ‏שקר מזין על‎

‎(Prov, 17:4), Also Job 6:30: ‏הוות‎ par ‏חכי לא‎ Ox: “Or should the roof of

‎--- my mouth (as the organ testing my words) not notice that my speech serves

‎> only my agitated spirit?”
| At any rate the plural ‏קרבם‎ refers to the word ‏שוררי‎ found in the
preceding verse. David has asked God to bein him ownid euen tha minntact