the Heavens;
scription of ‏על הגתית‎ “upon the wine pressing” would characterize the content
of a psalm as a meditation upon the ennobling effect of those afilictions
decreed by God for the moral betterment of mankind, or the ennobling of
man brought about by the Lord by means of such suffering, (Cf. ‏(מדרש תהלים‎
Indeed, all the psalms bearing this superscription fully bear out this assump-
5, tion, Psalms 81 and 84 also have a similar heading, All these three psalms
7 speak of the sced of truth and goodness in man which God desires to bring to
full fruition. These psalms differ from one another in content only in that this
chapter (Psalm 8) expresses the idea as seen from the point of view of man-
kind as a whole, while Psalm 81 sings of it from the point of view of the
‏שי‎ community of Isracl as such, and Psalm 84 restates it in terms of the indi-
vidual Jew.
Y. 2. *urmn ‏.ה' אדנינו וגו" אשר‎ The sentence which forms the first
‏ש‎ half of this verse appears again in Verse 10, the end of this psalm. It thus
announces itsclf as tho actual central theme of the entire psalm, which idea
is then borne out in ‏אשר הגה וגד'‎ and the ensuing passages. The final, refined
product to be gained through ‏,גתית‎ through the subjection of mankind to the
Vv “wine press”, as it were, will be the spreading of the worship of God through-
out the earth, Thus far this gift of the recognition of God has been the
portion of Israel alone. The eventual universal acknowledgment of the Lord,
‏שי‎ according to an expression used by our Sages, is ‏,יין המשומר בענבים‎ “the wine
that is cherished in the grapes" until the day mankind shall have reached its
ullimate goal. “O Lord, Who now art ‏,אדנינר‎ Whom we now recognize and
acknowledge as the ruler over all our lives and as the guide for all our aspira-
Vv tions, how uniquely mighty shall Thy Name be throughout the entire earth one
day.” For the explanation of ‏,אדיר‎ see Comm. to Exod, 15:6.
‏.אשר חנה הורך על השמים‎ fn is the infinitive with the letter ‏ה‎ substi-
Vv juted for nn just as we have ‏רדה‎ (Geo. 46:3) instead of ‏הוד .רדת‎ ₪5 the
fullness of existence and of power, the personal greatness that inspires respect
--- and reverence. See Comm. to Num. 27:20. ‘na mun used in the infinitive
mood is that constant, uninterrupted giving, the revelation of greatness. It
— is even possible that ‏תנה הודך על השמים‎ should be understood here in the same
| sense as Woy ‏ונתתה מהודך‎ (Num. idid.). “The sum total of the power and
‏סםשטה הג‎ which the heavens—that is the ‏הוה לייו‎ -wnartaractetal munrld_awant