‎a elie rie, cei‏ רומוהו וה
‎opinion of the people, no more help could be found for David from the God of‏
‎in order to impress the‏ ,ישועתה ‎was extended to‏ ישועה ‎justice. The expression‏
‎idea of utter helplessness thoroughly upon David. To the unenlightened raind,‏
‎are two irreconcilable opposing concepts. Certainly no‏ אלקים ‎and‏ ישועה
‎criminal can hope to receive help from the judge who at that same moment‏
‎is engaged in meting out punishment to himt‏

‎2S, ‏סלה‎ is a word that often occurs in the psalms, but its meaning is
obscure, The ustal assumption that it is synonymous with ‏;לפולם‎ Le, “for-
ever” Is inadequate here, because the word is also used in retrospect upon
events that occurred in the past. Thus ‏בצעדך בישימון טלה‎ (Ps. 68:8); ‏ותתעטף‎
‏רוחי סלה‎ (Ps. 77:4); ‏אבחנך על סי מריבה סלה‎ (Ps. 81:8); ‏היו זרוע לבני לוט סלה‎

‎Vv (Ps. 83:9) and also Habakkuk 3:3: ‏וקדוש מהר פארן סלה‎ and Habakkuk ibid.
13: ‏סלה‎ BOs ‏.ערות יסוד עד‎ If we compare all the places in which the word
‏סלה‎ occurs, then it would seem to be an expression having the same meaning

‎as the end of a paragraph, which expresses an end to a thought. Occurring‏ שי
‎at the end of a sentence, a dash indicates a recapitulation of the thought,‏
‎telling the reader to meditate once more upon that which has just been said,‏
‎or upon its consequences that have not been mentioned explicitly.‏

‎Vv Etymologically, according to ‏,טרשים לרד"ק‎ it would be bo, derived
from ‏סלל‎ with ‏ה נוסף‎ like ‏הרה נסו‎ (Gen. 14:10), “unto the mountain”, ‏הר‎ de+
rived from ‏הרר‎ with ‏,ה‎ equivalent to 1n.-Accordingly, ‏סלה‎ would be equivalent

‎Vv to ‏,לסל‎ Now ‏סל‎ means “a basket,” derived from 9%, “‘to raise on high," and, as,
we baye said in our commentary to Exodus 29:3, the exact depth of the
receptacle is not important. It can even be a platter upon which something is
carried. Thus the literal translation of ‏סלה‎ would be “to the basket,” “into

‎Vv the basket,” and perhaps we would not be too far from correct if we would
assume that this intends to say, “Before you hearken to something new,
first take this, collect this first in your minds, That which has just been said

‎v is worthy of being retained, of being meditated upon, of being ‘carried away
with you’ in thought.” This would be the same thought that the German

‎--- language expresses by a Gedankenstrich.
V. 4. ‏.ואתה ה'‎ “Even though Thou exercisest Thy sovereignty over
me at this very moment as a Judge, ‏,אלקי'‎ ‘Thou wile still remain ‘7. Thy
| judgment is only a form of mercy that will lead me from aberration and its