me Neo ee ST, 6 1
of David.
‏,אלהר‎ my God, the ruler of my destiny, the guide of my acts, the God Whom
1 proclaim, and ¥ may count upon Thy help against my foes. For even when
s, Tam deserving of Thy chastisement, those who offer themselves to Thee as
‘Thy tools for my punishment are wicked men, who cannot justify their evil
acts. Thou hast pronounced judgment over them long ago. Thou hast struck
my enemies the humiliating blow upon the cheek in the proclamation of Thy
Word, in the pronouncement of Thy Law. Thou hast broken the tecth, that is,

‎the vicious might, of the lawless, through the promises of Thy justice, and‏ ש
‎hast deprived them of all hope for success.” °n> 7m is “a blow signifying‏
‎reproach and humiliation". Thus also in Kings I, 22:24.‏

‎Vv V. 9. ‏.להי הישועה‎ This is the reflective recantation of the call to
judgment over his enemies which David voiced in Verse 8. He now places
it in the hands of God whether or not He wishes to help. He merely prays

‎that God might deign to give His blessing to His people. “May God bring‏ ש
‎about not that which seems best from the point of view of the individual, but‏
‎whatever would bring a blessing to His people.”‏

‎4 PSALM IV

‎V. 1. = ‏נצח ,למנצח בנגינות‎ is victory; ‏נצח‎ is “to make victory possible”,

‎Vv “to grant victory to”. 72 denotes instrumental music. ‏,ננינות‎ the power of
music, elevates both mind and emotions to Divine inspiration and this lends
aman the strength to overcome anything that might disturb his inner peace and

‎Vv serenity. Thus we read in II Kings 3:15: ‘a7 ‏,ותיה כננן המנגן ותהי עליו‎ God is
the ‏מנצה‎ Who gives man the strength to become master over all his afflictions.

‎-- Thus we also read in Pesachim 1193: ‏למנצח מומור לדוד זמרו למי שנוצחין אותו‎
hom, “Sing unto Him Who rejoices when His children emerge victorious

‎_ from afifiction caused them through His Divine decree.”
| ‏,מזמור לדוד‎ this psalm, too, shows the struggle upward out of a mood
wetohed dawn hy dictrece ta the beichten® eee