it may be in accordance with God’s purposes. David prays that the thoughts
expressed here in this psalm may be acceptable to the Lord Who (as stated
in Psalm 18) has shown Himself to David as his ‘rock and redeemer.”
‏,השמים .2 יר‎ see Commentary to Genesis, 1:1, is the whole extra-
terrestrial world, heaven with its multitude of stars travelling in measured
5, orbits, ‏רקיע‎ (ibid. 1:6 and 16) is the sky which we can sce, the super-
” terrestrial’ sphere from which earth receives all the prerequisites necessary
for its development; that is, light and warmth, air and water. ‏בבוד‎ is the
spiritual weightiness, the outward expression of the inner spiritual greatness
of a being, just as 733, “heaviness,” expresses the physical mass of an object.
4 (Commentary to Exod. 16:7). The word spp (Commentary to Gen, 5:1},
“to recount,” is the preferred expression used for the uniform narration of
events that have happened in the past. ‏הגיר‎ denotes “representing” or
Vv “picturing” in general, thus also the telling of things that are still going
on or that are yet to come about. (cf Gen. 3:11, 31:20, 41:25 and in many
other instances.) The heavens, with their stars moving in immutable orbits,
‏שי‎ tell the thinking man of the creation of the One great Master, through
‘Whose “let there be .. .” this whole cosmos came into existence. It gives
man some conception of ‏אל‎ N32, the omnipotence, wisdom and greatness of
Him Whose creative power brought this infinite universe into being. The
‏,רקיע ש‎ the ever-changing variety of phenomena given to the terrestrial world
by means of gifts from heaven above, represent ‏מעשה ידיו‎ to the intelligent
human being. The phrase ‏מעשה ידיו‎ expresses the process of molding that
‏שי‎ goes on constantly as “the work of His hands,” brought out by means of the
natural order created by Him. In all its variety, this still represents one
unified whole. It is one single composition. It is not ‏,מעשי‎ but ‏.מעשה‎
‎V. 3. ‏.יו ליום וג"‎ The life of this terrestrial world, brought into
Vv being by heaven, is divided into two parts; namely ‏יום‎ and ‏.לילה‎ oY,
(celated to ‏,קום‎ see Commentary to Gen. 1:5) is that daily life in which every
living thing, each raised up (built) in a nature peculiarly its own, develops
-7-- the energy inherent in the existence and task assigned it by the Creator,
| ‏,לילה‎ derived from ‏,לול‎ a process of mutual intertwining (ibid.) is the time
at which earth's children rest from the’« Txhore ond ot whieh mon ar the