‎NSE‏ יה 5 ‎enn OOS ON 7 OO‏ תפ 7 אפ
‎these thoughts, he will gain greater understanding of the language of heaven‏
‎and earth, of his own place in a world ruled by God, and of the Divine‏
‎Law which controls all things great and smail. He will come to attain under-‏
‎standing of that Law which is universal, to which all living things are‏
‎subject. Only by subordinating themselves to the will of the Lord will‏
‎His creatures on earth become that which they should be and fulfill the‏
‎purpose that gives meaning to their existence. However, as man’s ability‏
‎to perceive these things grows, he will become aware of a question for‏ -
‎which he will find no answer in the mere contemplation of heaven and‏
‎earth. He will face the question of what that Law is to which he must sub-‏
‎ordinate himself in all that he is and may achieve, so that he, too, may‏
‎‘become what he should be in accordance with the will of his Creator.‏
‎Vv Man, just like all other living things, is subject to higher laws that are‏
‎independent of the development of his body and mind. He knows, how-‏
‎ever that, unlike other forms of life, he has the power to determine for‏
‎Vv himself what use he will make of his physical and mental faculties. If he is‏
‎to make proper use of his power of self-determination in accordance with‏
‎the will of his Creator, he is in need of specific guidance, The will of‏
‎the Lord is fulfilled automatically by all other things in Creation, from the‏
‎Vv golden orb of the sun down to the smallest of plants nourished by its rays,‏
‎from the lowliest creature up to the greatest beasts—all except man, For ail‏
‎of them—save man—His will is the Law which they all are compelled to‏
‎they can not deviate‏ ;לא יסבו בלכתן איש אל עבר פניו ילכו ‎Vv follow unswervingly,‏
‎from their paths. Each creature except man moves in the direction in‏
‎which the will of the Lord has tured it. There is no conflict between good.‏
‎and evil in its development. The satisfaction of any of its desires is good.‏ שי
‎in the eyes of its Maker, because it was He Who instilled this desire into it‏
‎so that it may be fulfilled. Man is not so. He has been ennobled by the‏
‎will of God, for He has implanted in man a spark of His owa free personal‏
‎Vv Being. He has suspended the force of His own power in order to let man‏
‎‘enjoy the free use of his faculties and abilities. It is God's wish that man‏
‎should be able to recognize the Jaw and will of his Maker, but man should‏ _
‎also have the ability to act contrary to it. For man there does exist a con-‏
‎flict between good and evil. For him that which is good cannot always be‏
‎‘what is sweet to his senses, nor will evil always taste bitter to him. If he‏ |