oN eee
V6. ‏חה זכרי .61 זכרך .כי אין וגו"‎ (Exod. 3:15). “In death there is
no remembrance of Thee;" Le., death is not the concept that is representative
of Thy Being and Thy Sovereignty. The death of a human being is only a
consequence of the law of nature handed down by God when the world
‘began, and thus is merely a manifestation of the existence of that order of
nature the power of which no man can escape. But life, and resurrection in
particular, the regaining of a life once lost—that 15 the force which truly re-
veals God in His power. It shows Him standing above the forces of nature
5, which He Himself had ordained, and proves that He is always teady ta grant
renewed life and vigor to man for all his future loyal endeavors in his service
to God on earth. This is the basic difference between the heathen idea of
idolatry on one hand and Jewish Divine truth on the other. To the heathen
mind the power of its idols is demonstrated when these deities overthrow
Vv the strongest of human forces, a display of the degraded lethal foree to which
all living things succumb. This is so because the heathen deities are in reality
the forces of nature ordained by God. Jewish truth, however, tells us this:
‏ש‎ ‘As truly as 1 Bve’, says God, ‘as the One Who loves even when 1 must
chastise (the Tetragrammaton which is read as ‏(אלקי'‎ , 1 do not find pleasure
in the death of the wicked bet in the repentance of the sinner from his path
50 that he may attain new life’.” (Exod, 33:11 and Chap, 18, repeatedly).
‏שי‎ Therefore also ‏,בשאול »7 יודה לך‎ “in the grave, who will do Thee homage?”
‘That part of man which is interced in the grave can no longer render the ser-
vice by which man practices the moral homage to God on earth in accordance
‏ש‎ ‘with His will. That part of man which lies buried in the grave simply succumbs
to the effects of the natural forces to which it is doomed to fal victim. But the
living human being must do homage to God by means of voluntary moral
fulfilment of his mission on earth with which God has entrusted him. It is
Vv not premature death, but persevering life, paying due tribute to God, that is
in accordance with His will. It is from this conviction that David, even when
he seems to be at the end of his strength, draws his faith in the wondrous
‏ש‎ mercy of God as confirmed by His very Name.
a? (related to y1°), in Hiphil, means to give voice to a realization
--- or conviction which we bear in our hearts as rogards something or someone
else; to declare what another is, what he means and has meant to us, and
what our own relationship to him is or should be; thus: “to acknowledge”,
| “to do homage”, “render thanks”, or “confess sins.”