bounds; and thus He is not hidden 57 121 RNY 72 ‏קפ‎

even before His sun. aR

A SSS
Whoever beholds the sun in its constant brilliance and strength will think

it is a power that is self-sufficient and dependent upon no other force.

‘Yet, this bright ball cannot even choose its own point of origin ‏זס‎ its orbit

—both of these have been set in pre-ordained points in the heavens. It is

this immutable regularity, which limits the diurnal and annual paths of this

mightiest of heavenly bodies, that indicates the existence of a Being that is

mightier still. This Supreme Force can call even this most powerful source

of light and heat “His,” anon, His sun whose orbit He bas set. Because

the sun is “His,” He cannot be eclipsed or obscured even by this most

2S, radiant power that shines over all the earth. Indeed, it is because of the
sun that He is ‏נסתר‎ 7x, not hidden; ‏אל‎ Px or ‏כבוד אל נסתר‎ PR, ‏המה ,חמתר‎ the

word is never used to indicate warmth or heat; it always denotes “the sun.”

xxv, 2, ‏,תקופתר‎ David, as do all the Holy Scriptures, talks in

‎He speaks the speech of‏ ,דברה תורה כלשון בני אדם ‎the Janguage of men.‏ ש
‎men to men, His language is the same as that of Copernicus, Keppler and‏

‎Newton, and as that which we use today and which will most likely be

‎employed by every human tongue as long as men shall be capable of speech.

‎‘This language will remain the same even when the assumption that the‏ ש
‎sun is static and that the earth revolves around it—and not the sun around the‏

‎carth—will have been proven to be irrefutable certainty. For it is not the

‎aim of the Holy Scriptures to teach us astronomy, cosmogony or physics,‏ ש
‎bat only to guide man to the fulfillment of his life's task within the frame-‏

‎work of the constellation of his existence. For this purpose it is quite

‎isrelevant whether the course of the days and years is determined by the

‎v carth’s revolution about the sun, or by the latter's orbit about the former,
‘The Scriptures will have achieved theie purpose if only man’s spiritual ear

‎will remain attuned for the understanding of the “speech of heaven and of

‎earth.” This language speaks to the thinking man through the conformity‏ שי
‎of all these phenomena to a fixed set of laws which control all of nature,‏

‎from the paths of the infinite galaxies down to the microscopic development

‎of the most minute one-celled animal. The Scriptures will have attained

‎their end if man will refuse to listen to any attempts to explain away the‏ ש
‎equally irrefutable certainty that there can be no thought without a Thinker,‏

‎no Jaw without a Lawgiver. The more he comes to understand the ideas

‎— demonstrated by the course of nature and the laws that govern the world,
the clearer will he see with his mind's eye the One God, Who bas always

‎| ‘been the source of all the thoughts that are realized and find their realization