“ of men, mee
in His creation of, and reign over the world, and the revelation of His Law,
Both these masterpieces of the Lord should have as their goal the supreme
sovereignty of right in the world. But if righteousness has suffcred defeat
everywhere, what, then, is all of God's work worth?
‏ד‎ 4, ‘mn ‏.ה' בהיכל‎ Verse 4 is the beginning of the answer to the
question raised in Verses 1—3. For ‏היכל קדשו‎ see Psalm 5:8. It was in the
5 “abode of His Sanctuary” that God proclaimed the supreme goal of human
5 destiny; namely, that all the physical and mental energies of man should be
dedicated to the fulfillment and the realization of that moral law which rests
in the “Abode of His Word" ‏,דביר‎ beneath the Cherub’s wings of His world-
wide Sovereignty, ‏השמים‎ the entire super-terrestrial world on which the con-
‏שי‎ tigued growth of all living things on earth depends, is 102, God’s throne.
Everything granted or denied man in the course of the evolution of the
earthly world is in accordance with the wishes of God. If it now appears as
if ‏,כסאו בשמים‎ His world-wide Sovereignty is not in accordance with that which
Vv is revealed as His will in the ‏,היכל קדסו‎ Iet us read Verse 4 and find our
answer there. ‏.עיניו יהזו קפעפיו יבחנר בני אדם‎ nm is a beholding that is mental
in nature and penetrates into the inmost recesses of the spirit (see Comm.
‏שי‎ to Gen, 15:2). ‏,עפעפים‎ derived from ‏,עפף‎ which is synonymous to my, “to
fy”, describes the eyclids which are in almost perpetual motion. The eye
can be closed completely, or the visual horizon can be fixed or modified by a
wider or narrower opening of the eyelids. The eyelids can also transmit the
‏ש‎ sigual of the eye as an expression of their owner's will. ‏,כחן‎ sec Chap. 7:10,
This means that God, Whose holy and sanctifying Law was laid down for
mankind in His Sanctuary, is the same God Who rules the world according
‏שי‎ to the principles set down by Him in this Law, We do not always understand
His workings because our eye sees, at the most, the superficial aspects of
men and matter, while the all-sceing eye of the Lord penetrates isto the in- |
most parts of all things living. We, however, have lost sight of the discipline |
‏ש‎ that is inherent in His rule. Thus we, who can see life only in a superficial
manner, are not the proper judges for the true moral level of our present-
day world. We cannot tell how much improvement we and the world about
ee us need, or ow much we are capable of improving, nor can we jadgo how
good or how bad circumstances are. Because we afe thus Hmited in our
‘understanding, we can apply only the standards of reward and punishment 1