-- ‏ה- 000 ה‎ 1
my bead with oil; my cup has been \
full ever since,

5 ‘acim. ayn, derived from 4xy, “round,” is “a circle,” “circuit”

or “path.” ‏מעגלר צדק‎ are those ways of life circumscribed by law, which
keep within the bounds of Jaw and order. Anything outside that “circle”
is ‏עברה‎ wrong, transgressing the bounds of righteousness. ‏שמו‎ yyn? does
not mean “in order to make Himself a name,” but “in order to prove the

v mma, the ways of mercy which are expressed by His Name.” This circumvents
any aspect of human merit. The Lord deals kindly with men not because
of their merits but because of the ways of loving-kindness that befit His

‎nature.‏ ש

‎4. "1a. ‏גיא צלמות‎ is 8 valley overshadowed by death, in which
all life has vanished and the death and decay of all living things pervade
everything round about. This is the gloomiest portrayal of disaster, in

‎Vv which death withholds every ray of light, or of long-awaited salvation, and
all things recede hopelessly into the darkness of night. ‏שבט, שבטך ומשקנתך‎
is the chastising rod, suffering, w2 ‏חושך שבטו שונא‎ (Prov. 13:13, 24},

‎“to support,” is the‏ ,שען ‎derived from‏ ,משענת .(9:34 ‎(Job‏ יסר מעלי שבטר שי
‎“supporting staff,” the “support.” "1 take comfort in the knowledge that‏
‎whatever I receive from Thee, be it chastisement or support, is indeed Thine‏
‎and comes solely from Thee.”‏

‎+ ¥, 5. ‘x ‏.תערך‎ “Thou preparest a table before me in the presence
of all those that oppress me," David declares, “I need not wait until complete
rest is mine. In the midst of the darkest suffering Thou givest me peace and

‎Vv inner calm so that 1 may rejoice even in the brief moment of respite. Thou
dost help me find serenity even in the midst of life's direst distress. ‏.דשנת וגו'‎
Once Thou didst anoint and saturate my head with oil. Through Samuel

‎ee ‘Thou didst anoint me as king in consecration for my great Jewish mission.
My ‘cup’, the cup of my destiny (see Psalm 75:9) has been fulll ever since:
and my contentment is complete, I have received the consecration of the