‎Tule Of Joving-Kindness, wilith consianlly 0168165 and furthers growth,‏ מו
‎is generous and seeks to help all things to become worthy eventually of‏
‎eternal bliss and salvation. (See Commentary to Num. 14:17).‏
‎V. 4,5, "MMP, 727 is not simply “to 1596," but means “to Iead‏
‎all of‏ ,תפר ,טור ,תור ,דור ‎together,” or “to gather together.” It is related to‏ ,25
‎which denote a “joining together.” This meaning comes to the fore particu-‏
‎“a fold (of‏ ,דובר ‎“a swarm of bees,” and‏ (דבודה ‎larly in the derivatives‏
‎sheep)” (see Commentary to Gen. 11:1). “Our history should teach you‏
‎to know the ways of God's Sovereignty,” Israel tells the nations. “The Jewish‏
‎people wanders through the world without power and without ams, and‏ ש
‎yet all the nations of the world shall gradually gather beneath the Jewish‏
‎banner, beneath the ideal which the Jewish people has held aloft and which‏
‎has served it as its guiding star in its wanderings through time. What ix the‏ ש
‎reason for this victory of the Jewish people? This victory wilt come about‏
‎because we have left it to God to determine what our portion on earth should‏
‎be. We were content to remain ‘Jacob’ in accordance with His decree, to‏
‎remain a powerless nation which, if left to itself, would be doomed eternally‏ ש
‎to ‘cling to the heels’ of the other nations. All that we are, or should be,‏
‎as a nation, we have and could receive only from the hands of the Lord,‏
‎We have won the battle because we have taken pride in renouncing all‏ ש
‎personal grandeur and might, and this is the only kind of pride that finds‏
‎favor in the eyes of the Lord, He abhors all other pride. For His is the‏
‎when all pride and arrogance shall have vanished from‏ על כל ‎day bm ma‏
‎yuo. It is His desire‏ יפקב ‎the earth, The Lord looks with favor only upon‏ ש
‎that men, though fully aware of their own impotence and dullness, should‏
‎still take exalting pride in the fact that they know other things, spiritual and‏
‎moral values which constitute genuine wealth and greatness, and that by‏ ש
‎cultivating these values, they seck to make themselves worthy of God’s help‏
‎and blessings. This is the pride in which the Lord delights because it‏ —
‎derives from the proper understanding of the destiny of men and nations.”‏
‎denote political sub-‏ תחת רגלינר ‎Tt may also be that wnnn and‏ --
‎jugation, the defeating of nations. These statements would refer to the‏ |