‎one ee eee Oe ES Ee‏ ור ‎eee ae nee‏ ו התה
‎of it, since these are the blessings sensed only by the spitit of him who‏
‎receives it. Perhaps - nox, io accordance with the sense in which it is‏
‎usually employed, might mean here, “which Thou hast stored up for them”;‏
‎i. e. which Thou bestowest upon no one else, and which no one who is not‏
‎can know, understand or appreciate. Much more often than is‏ ירא ה"
‎is a false, premature conclusion, for the‏ צדיק ורע לר ‎generally believed,‏
‎blessings and happiness enjoyed by the righteous man are measured by‏

‎5 quite a different standard. The ‏צדיק‎ receives a special sort of happiness
and bliss which only a ‏צדיק‎ knows how to enjoy and appreciate, which
superficial suffering cannot disturb and which, as a matter of fact, often
prove their very efficacy particularly in times of suffering.

‎loses part of its dividing power if it is‏ אתנהתא ‎Since the‏ .פפלת וגו" ש
‎there is some doubt as to how this sentence‏ ,עולה ‎preceded by an ‘TY‏
‎is the adverbial modi‏ נגד ‎°3a‏ אדם ‎should be construed; namely, whether‏

‎means “in the‏ גר ‎and also whether‏ ,חוסים בך ‎or that of‏ פעלת ‎fication of‏ שי
‎presence of,” “in the sight of,” or whether it would mean “against,” or‏
להלך נגד ‎does denote in several instances; e.g.‏ נגד ‎“in opposition to,” as‏
‎(Lam. 3:35),‏ נגר פני עליון ,)10:17 ‎(Fob‏ תחדש עדיך נגדי ,)6:8 ‎(Eccl.‏ התיים

‎Vv ‏וגר לנגר ה'‎ ADIN PR (Prov. 21:30). Thus the sentence could be construed
in any one of the following ways: 1) “Thou, Who openly, in the sight of
the eyes of men, hast done good to those who put their trust in Thee,” or

‎in‏ ,חוסים בך ‎“The goodness which Thou bestowest secretly upon the‏ )2 ש
‎the presence of men, (the others are present but they do not notice it),‏
‎or 3) “Which Thou bestowest upon those who, in the face of all others,‏
‎put their trust solely in Thee, who do not hesitate to acknowledge, and‏

‎Vv make it known to all that they put their trust in the Lord alone,” or
4) “Who, even while confronted by the hostility of men and fighting against
them, trust only in the Lord.” However, since Verse 21 gives a more

‎detailed description of the blessings which God in His goodness bestows‏ ש
‎would only be a continuation of‏ פעלת ‎in secret, "Wi‏ יראים ותוסים 12 ‎upon the‏

‎008 the thought contained in the first half of Verse 20, and ‏טובך‎ would be the
object referring to both halves of the verse. Accordingly, the verse should be

‎_ construed 83 follows: “How rich is Thy goodness which Thou, though
| men do not imow it, hast stored up for those that fear Thee, which Thou