seeks it not merely at his hour of praycr, but throughout his life; if all of his

thinking, all his desires and achievements are directed towards God. If God

is to hear you, then ‘m1 ‏רגז .רגזו‎ means “to tremble” rather than to “anger.”

5, (See Commentary to Gen. 12:5, 45:24.) It is the same concept as expressed

0 by myn, referring to God, in Chap. 2, Verse 11: only the term ‏רגו‎ is stronger

still. Let the thought of God's ever-present omnipotence and greatness over-

whelm you, Let your frail human mind consider how insignificant mortal

man really is. Let these truths, which make even the sceptic question his own

Vv unbelief, penetrate your souls, so that you may realize that all human acts

that are contrary to God’s will are indeed worthless. Tremble, and fear in

such a manner that you will cease to sin. “1 Tox. There is no need to

express it in words or to communicate it to others, When you are quite alone

Vv upon your beds, quite alone with your hearts and with God, then admit it

to yourselves and pledge it within your own hearts.

‎marina, (See Commentary to Deut. 33:19). And then‏ צדק .6 .ער

‎Vv bring unto God the sacrifices of a dutiful and righteous life. Do this in the

‎spirit of the ‏שלמים‎ sacrifices. As a rule, that is what is understood by ‏.זבתים‎ 1

‎is the spirit which stamps all Jewish thought and aspiration, which knows not

‎Vv only how to “tremble” in God’s presence, but also how to “rejoice” before

‎Him and how to attain ‏גילה‎ from ‏רפדה‎ (Chap. 2:11); a spirit which finds

‎peace and joy of life in every act acceptable to God. ‏אל ה'‎ wea. Then look with

‎teust to God's help and assistance. ‏בה'‎ nba is trust in God, “to feel secure” in

‎4 and through God. An attitude which even the man blessed with good fortune

‎must always maintain, remembering that he must put his trust not ia his

‎material possessions but in God, and that he will be able to rejoice in his

‎Vv good fortune only if, and as long as, he can and will regard it as a sign of

‎God's grace. ‏אל ה'‎ m2, however, always denotes trust toward God; ie,

‎— trustingly to await God's help even amidst the greatest vicissitudes and, thus,
to find peace and serenity even before help bas actually come.

‎| V. 7. ‏,רבים אומרים‎ ete. Verses 3---6 have first uncovered the source,