He has sworn this once to evil and
does not change [his vow].
of the Law. The Psalmist has selected the sphere of interpersonal relation~
ships firstly because they are most easily recognizable and secondly, in order
to refute the erroncous concept of those who would divide life's duty into two
separate spheres; ie, “duties toward God” and “duties toward one’s fellow
3 men", Those who Jabor under that delusion think that only the fulfillment
of our duties toward God has any importance in the House of the Lord, while
He has litile, or at least Jess interest in human selationships upon the market
place of everyday life,
‏,לא 531 וגול‎ the word 927 in its Kal form does not occur again in this
Vv sense. It is synonymous with 22%, from which is derived ‏,רכיל‎ “the slanderer",
the tale-bearer, the scandal-monger who carries slanderous tales from house
(o house. Sce Commentary to Lev. 19:16.
v ‏לשונר‎ by. This phrase occurs in only two other places in the Scriptures,
namely in Sam, 11 23:2 ‏,ומלתו על לשונר‎ and in Prov. 31:26 ‏חסד על לשונה‎ Nan.
In both these instances the phrase indicates not the expression of a thought
emanating from the speaker's own mind, but that of ideas which be has
v derived from other sources. This is the case here too. yon ‏לשון‎ is not mere
slander, but denotes also the retelling of “given facts”, which are indeed true,
but can become disadvantageous or unpleasant to (he person concerned if any
Vv are broadeast, ‏רגל‎ NY, ADD ‏לא נשא ,לא‎ are all verbs in the past tense which
characterize even more strikingly the inconsistent behavior of so many
thoughtless worshippers in the House of the Lord. They pay little attention
to the demands placed upon them by the Law of which this Sanctuary is
Vv the permanent abode. They bear slander, do evil or at Ieast countenance it
‘up to the very moment they reach the threshold of the House of God and in
this spirit they enter into it in order to worship. In contrast to this type of
‏ש‎ person, it is said here of the man who acts in accordance with God's will as
expressed in His Sanctuary, “He has not borne slander upon his tongue or
--- done evil to his fellow, or listened quietly while an aspersion was cast upon
his neighbor.”
V. 4. "9 amma, This indicates the conformity of the attitude which
| we should maintain in our interpersonal relations, with the spirit to be derived