(he accent marks, there ts a close connection between ‏אז איתם‎ and ‏.אל ימשלו בי‎
Therefore, ‏אז איתם‎ cannot be a concluding phrase; instead, together with
- ‏אל ימשלר‎ it forms one sentence. The word 1 is used in a relative sense, “at
the time of,” or “at the time when.” Thus we read in Psalm 56:10,
‏אד ישובו אויבי אחור ביום אקרא זה ידעתי בי אלקי' לד‎ “ar thar time, when my
enemies will retreat on the day when I call, 1 shall know that God is with
‏ש‎ me." We also have ‏הפקיד‎ twa ‏ויהי‎ (Gen. 39:5), “from shat time forward
when he had appointed him over his houschold,” and, in Exod. 4:10,
‏גם מאז דברך‎ “since the time when Thou bast spoken,” and elsewhere. Accord-
ing to its grammatical construction, ‏איתם‎ is the future Kal form of ‏יתם‎
‎Vv “to be orphaned,” or “under age.” ‏,הלך‎ as in ‏ממני‎ wn ‏ולא‎ (Gen, 39:9),
‏גל חשכת את בנך וגו ממנר‎ (Gen. 22:16) 15 to withold something from the
request or disposal of a person, not to allow him to have the abject of his
Vv desire. (For the relationship with yon, see Genesis 1:3).
David, then, asks the Lord to protect him against two dangers;
first, against errors caused by lack of understanding, and, secondly, against
‏ש‎ the temptation of bad example and the influence of the evil principles of
depraved men that might gain the upper hand during David’s weak moments.
Even the best of us are not immune to such hours of moral weakness in
which the “guiding” force of better principles forsakes us, and we are left
‏שי‎ prey, “orphaned” or “without guidance” to the influences of moral corruption.
(See Commentary to Exodus 22:21). David asks that God might save
him from both these perils. ‏,ונקית‎ and if the Lord grants his request, David
‏ש‎ hopes that he will be able to keep himself pure, as he modestly specifies,
‏מפשע רב‎ from great transgression,
— V. 15. Sn ‏לרצון‎ ya, May David's words and meditations be in
accordance with God’s will and deserving of His attention. The sages com-
--- ment that David here asks the Lord to let his words serve toward the
| advancement of the spiritual and moral development of his people. ‏יהיו‎