speak of sad, solemn thoughts and emotions, Even ‏הקשיבה רנתי‎ (Psalm 17:1)
as well as in Psalms 61:2, 88:3, 106:44, 119:169, 162:7 are without a
doubt outpourings of the soul deriving from moods of solemnity, often over-
shadowed by danger and distress. On the other hand, it is just as obvious
that the forms of ‏רגן‎ used in ‏רני בת ציון‎ (Zephaniah 3:14) and in numerous
other instances in the Scriptures have a connotation of joy and good cheer,
‘The Piel form, y71, as used in this verse, oocurs only in connection
5 with joyous emotions. There is a saying of the sages in the Midrash stating
that it is said ‏רגנר צדיקים בה'‎ and not ‏בומן שהן רואין ,רנגו צדיקים אל ה'‎
‏מרנגיך‎ Po for it is an outpouring of emotions evoked by the sight of the Lord,

as in ‏וירא כל העפ וירנו‎ (Lev. 9:24).
‘Therefore the opts, whose lives are guided by loyalty to daty, are
Vv called upon here to behold the hand of God in the developments of nature
and in the course of history, and to give articulate voice to the lofty thoughts
and emotions evoked by such bebolding. For, ax is stated in support of this
‏ש‎ appeal, ‏לישרים‎ only those who fulfill their purpose in life by submitting to
the authority of God’s Law are qualified and entitled to recognize God in
His mighty acts and, on this basis, to proclaim His greatness, Not the
possession of mental or moral faculties alone forms the essential prerequisite
v for the knowledge of God. He who refuses to allow the Lord to rule over
him, is prejudiced from the very beginning os regards the recognition of
God's supreme Sovereignty in the world. For if he were to recognize the
‏שי‎ Lord’s supremacy, he would inevitably have to subordinate himself to God’s
‘will, and how covld a man such as he sing the Lord’s praises if, by his own
way of life, he denies the very statements which his lips proclaim as absolute
truth? ‏,תהלה‎ derived from boy, litecally, “yeflect,” portrays the acts and
4 works of God as “emanations” or “rays” which call to mind the existence
and Sovereignty of the Lord even as the rays of the sun proclaim the
existence and efficacy of that heavenly body. See Comm. to Exod, 15:11.
Vv ‏נאוה‎ is derived from ‏,נאה‎ with the ‏ה‎ changed to 1 and the additional ‏ה‎ at
the end of the word, a5 may is derived from ‏.גאה‎ ma is commonly used
in Rabbinic literature to express “that which is proper" or “what is seemly.”

-- Likewise ‏יתר‎ now ‏לנבל‎ ma ‏לא‎ (Prov. 17:7).

| 2. ‏(הודר לה' וג"‎ and where human words are inadequate, let
the sounds of the harp come to thelr nid ‏היד הד‎ et