‎titel ea‏ ,היווה ה 7 א הו ‎ata‏ דל
‎the words, ‘How beautiful is this tree, how lovely this field’ has thereby for-‏
‎feited his soul” (Pirke Aboth INI, 9). For a person who delivers himself of‏
‎a remark such as this shows how sorely he lacks all feeling and understanding‏
‎for the incomparably loftier beauty that is radiated by a buman life having‏ ש

‎its foundation in the Law of the Lord.

‎V. 17. ‏.יהי וגו‎ This righteous king cannot live forever, but his influ-
‏שי‎ ence will not end with his death. His name shall live on through his grand-
children, and all shall strive to live and work in accordance with his spirit
and to make themselves worthy of the name of their great ancestor which
they bear. ‏ינון‎ is derived from ‏,נין‎ “progeny,” “descendants” (see Commen-
v tary to Gen. 21:23). qu", a Niphal form, is “he perpetuates his name in
progeny.” = ‏:כתיב‎ px, Hiphil, means “he begets progeny.” His name shall
be perpetuated by his descendants and hence he will prove his moral and
‏שי‎ spititual creative power in their lives, and his grandchildren will be not only
his physical descendants, but his spiritual heirs as well. ‏ויתברכו וגל‎ and
eventually the blessing wrought by his name will spread fac beyond the
Jewish people; all the nations shall come 10 realize that men and nations
Vv alike will be able to attain permanent prosperity only if they will conduct
their lives in the spicit fostered by the ‏דוד‎ 72. It is only if men adopt as
their own the ideals taught by the son of David, that the ctermal progress
Vv toward the goal of universal welfare, which they bave hitherto sought in
vain, shall indeed be realized. David's first son, to whom this psalm makes
--- reference, was only partially successful in making a living reality of the
— bright pictore envisioned bere by his father, for he did not fulfil his father’s
hopes even in his personal life and endeavors. But, according to the words
| of the prophet, all the wishes and hopes for the future of Israel and mankind