faving been 66 0 00 50 by 8
“Kussite” descended from the tribe
of Benjamin.
ashamed.” There is wa, which actually means to find oneself deceived
in his expectations” (see Comm. to Gen. 2:25), and ‏יבש‎ (c.g. in Hiphil ‏הובשת‎
‏היום את פני כל עבדיך‎ Sam. 11, 19:6), “to become dry,” “to lose one’s vigor,”
to lose one’s ability to go on, to lose hope. Cf. ‏יבשו עצמותינו ואבדה תקותנו‎
5, (Ezek, 37:11). ‏יבש‎ is either an unusual ‏מעול‎ form of war, (the ordinary
7 form of the future tense is ‏,(איבש זכו'‎ or else, and this would seem more
probable, it is a form combining the concepts of ‏בוש‎ and ‏יבש‎ They will find
themselves deluded to such a degree that they will lose ail hope of ever
living to sce that which they had long awaited. They will stand there thunder-
Vv struck. They will return, believing that they will see a dying man before
their eyes, but they will find themselves grievously disappointed. During that
‘one moment in which they were away from the couch of their victim, he will
‏שי‎ have taken a turn for the better. His life shall be restored from within as soon
as his heart will tum to God and his spirit will have attained the proper
understanding.
Vv PSALM VII
V. 1. ‏לדוד‎ WI. The only other place where the word ‏שגיון‎ occurs
as the heading for a chapter is Habbakuk 3:1 ‏.תפלה לחבקוק הנביא על שגיונות‎
Vv ‘We have alccady noted the difference between ‏שגכ‎ and ‏שגה‎ in our Comment-
ary to Gen. 8:1. While ‏שגב‎ denotes a practical error due to carelessness, ‏שגוה‎
‎is an error due to a delusion of the mind caused by a devious trend of
thought. Therefore pw is an intellectual error. If we compare Chapter 3
Vv of the Book of Habbakuk with this psalm, we can readily see a similarity in
content, Only in Habbakuk it is ‏,תפלה על שגיונות‎ a ‏תפלת‎ concerning fallacies,
errors which had already been described in preceding chapters, while in this
Vv psalm this error itself, ‏,שגיון‎ forms the content of the chapter. The prophet
felt that the insolence of the growing Chaldean power bad taken on such
— extraordinary dimensions that an intervention of Divine judgment seemed
absolutely necessary to save mankind, helplessly at the mercy of the Chale
deans, lest men begin to doubt God’s justice, Missing this Divine intervention,
| ‘Habbakuk tums to God in the first chapter of the prophetic book with his plea