0 - |
‘Vv. 6. ‏,ימטר על רשעים פחים‎ while ova is the specific word denoting
“rain”, ‏מטר‎ includes everything that comes down from the skics. Thus, put {
together with ‏,גשם‎ as in ‏גשם יתן להם‎ wpa, “He gives them a downfall of rain”
(Zech. 10:1); ‏,וגשם מטר וגשם מטרות עזו‎ He speaks to the snow, “Go down to
earth, and rain, be ry messenger, and the rains are the heralds of His might”
(lob 37:6), thu are traps upon which the unsuspecting victim steps and in
which he then gets his foot enmeshed. Thus we read ‏ומחים טמנו לרגלי‎ (Jer.
18:22) and no apya ‏אחז‎ (Job 18:9), The good which God sends down
5 from heaven to the wicked man in the natural course of events brings him
no happiness. All these bounties of the Lord are actually traps upon which *
he treads without concern and which finally lead to his ruin, Thus we read,
in Psalm 69:23, ‏,יהי שלתנם לפניהם לפח‎ their table; that is, the enjoyment of
their prosperity, shall become their trap, and in Job 18:7-10 we find a
‏ש‎ description of the good fortune that the wicked seem to enjoy as “nets”,
“nooses” and “snares”, ‏כוס.‎ is a vessel with certain specific contents in which
‘a man is given that which is intended for him (see Commentary to Exod.
‏שי‎ 12:3-6), This is an allegory commonly used for the fate that is preordained
for man, ni, like ‏מנה‎ and yp, derived from ‏,מנה‎ is “to count out”, a portion
meted out. ‏[לעפה לעפות‎ seems to be composed of the words bt (derived
from ‏מלל‎ “to become little”, of “to ebb”—see Chap. 12:9) and ‏,עוף‎ “to fly.”
4 ‘Thus ‏זלפפה‎ would be a form of exhaustion that comes to a man as if borne
on wings. Thus we have ‏זלעפה אחזתני‎ (Ps, 119:53( and ‏מפני זלקפות רעב‎
(Lament. 5:10), This means that the good fortune that comes to the wicked
‏שי‎ in the natural course of events is nothing but a shower of snares. The portion
of their cup (the fate meted out to them) is like a hail of fire and brimstone
and, in addition, like 8 wind beating exhaustion on its wing. Their wealth is
as ruinous to them as fire and brimstone. Soon those worldly possessions
Vv ‘will be cach other's rvin and will spell destruction also to their owners. To
this is added a ‏זלעפות‎ nm, ‏ג"‎ wind bearing exhaustion on its wing”. This
fiery blast weakens the victim while it kindies his possessions that have
Vv ‘become as pernicious to him as fire and brimstone. We would tend to in-
terpret ‏רוח זלעפות‎ as being the passions which are described as a moving
storm in Isaiah 57:20, ‏.והרשעים כים נגרש וגו'‎ It is the raging passions that
a debase the wealthy man both physically and morally and that will finally
| destroy even his wealth.