V. 1. ‏.על השמינית .למנצח וג‎ A similar title can be found only in one
other place, that is, Chapter 12. If we compare these two chapters, we shall
find that their contents are related to one another. In both chapters the
Psalmist seeks to raise the human spirit from a state of utter despair. Both

5 psalms stress bow futile it is to expect help from men. ‘This realization is then
- logically followed by an affirmation of confidence that Géd would intervene
with His saving power at the hour of utmost need. ‘The only difference

‘between the contents of these two psalms is that while Chapter 6 speaks of

one individual's state of utter despair, Chapter 12 deals with the utter depravi-

‎is‏ על השמיגית ‎ty of buman society as a whole. In Arachin 130, the phrase‏ ש
‎the eighth string.” It is explained‏ מס" ,על נימא שמינית ‎interpreted to mean‏

‎there that the harp ordinarily used in the Temple had only seven strings, while

‎the one intended for the Messianic era had eight, and the instrament repre-

‎Vv senting the form the world will take in the future bad ten strings. wpa bu >
wy ‏.של שבעה נימין היה ושל ימות המשיח שמוגה של עולם הכא‎ We have already

‎sought to inquire into the significance of the numerals 7 and 8 in Jewish

‎literature (Yeshurum, Vol. V, p. 13 £.). There we found that the number 7‏ שי
‎always indicates the element of the Divine connected with the physical world‏

‎of the creation, God in covenant with His world and the world in communion

‎with God. ‘This is shown typically in the words naw and ‏,שבועה‎ “the cath",

‎the other hand, points to the Eighth Work of God, namely‏ מס ,8 ‎‘The number‏ ש
‎the institution appointed in world history by God for the regaining of the‏

‎forfeited “Sabbath” and the lost communion with Him. Thus the number 8

‎indicates that which is specifically Jewish. Israel, after all, is the heratd‏ שי
‎bringing the message of redemption to mankind. Israel is, at the same time,‏

‎the actual historical proof that there will indeed be a release from depravity,

‎a redemption from all bodily, spiritual, moral and social ills, and a resur-

‎Vv rection from every kind of physical and spiritual decay, It is the Lord alone
‘Who loosens the bonds of death and guilt and is ready at all times to grant

‎new life and a new future with His call to action and His omnipotent grace to

‎--- those who 9666 it, as the Tetragrammaton shows us so profoundly, That is the
reason why this nation, raised from the depths of physical and historical

‎destruction to life and freedom, received as its first commandment that of the