‘Thus ‏עצת רשקים‎ is the counsel of the lawless, a counsel that deliberately
disregards the law. As for the righteous man——“he has never taken such
counsel—jo7 ‏;בעצת רשעים לא‎ he has never taken a step guided by such
counsel. His life knows of no deliberate transgressions of the law.”

‎and if due to lack of seriousness, or thoughtless~‏ ,ובדרך חטאים לא עמר

‎5 ‘ness, or weakness or error—and certainly no human being is immune to this

‎- failing—he strayed onto a wrong path, onto a ‏,דרך חטאים‎ he never stood or
remained on it, but forsook it as soon as he recognized it for what it really
was.

‏לא עמ ‎can hardly be said of any one person, But‏ בדרך חטאים לא הלך

‎—not to remain in that path once he has recognized his error—is required‏ שי
‎of every ethical human being,‏

‎No person, least of 811 those faithful to their duty,‏ .ובמושם לצים לא ישב
‎can avoid having contact with theoretical enemies and scorers of the moral‏

‎Taw in daily life and in the course of business activity. The duties of life can‏ ש
‎‘be fulfilled only in communion with others. No one can choose for himself‏
‎the environment in which he will move. ‘This environment is often arbitrarily‏

‎given to each of us. It is in this very interaction with people of varying mental‏ ש
‎attitudes that the duty-conscious person must prove his God-oriented prin-‏
‎ciples through a zeal that cannot be diverted or confused. After all, it is not‏
‎in the hours of business and daily work, but during the ieisure hours devoted‏

‎unfolds its art‏ לצים ‎to discussion and conversation that the sophistry of the‏ ש
‎that is so confusing to logic and so detrimental to morals. It is not practiced‏
,מושב ‎while “walking or standing,” but while “sitting.” Anyone can avoid the‏

‎Vv the “seat” of the ‏.לצים‎ Anyone can decide for himself how to uso his teisure
time, During our leisure time we belong to ourselves and to those who share
‘our views and attitudes on basic matters: ‏.ובמושב לצים לא ישב‎

‎yan is a stronger form of won, “to seek,”‏ .כי אם בתורת ה' חפצו .2 .ער

‎Vv and ‏חפץ‎ denotes the goal and the striving for it. In contrast to the ‏,רשעים‎ the
‏חטאים‎ and the ‏,לצים‎ he finds his goals and his strivings for them only in the
Law of God. There his goais have been set and his paths marked out. (It

‎— has been given to him for his understanding and for fulfillment by him, and
therefore his constant and most intensive thinking moves in this his own Di-
| vine Law “day and night.”) nov, During the day, the time of his active