PSALM LIT
V. 1. This psalm, with the exception of a few changes, seems to
be a repetition of Psalm 14. Like Psalm 14, Psalm 53 speaks of an era
of widespread spiritual and moral degeneration. In the midst of an utterly
5, godless world, Israel is the sole nation that by virtue of its way of life, still
stands out as the people of God, and its history shines forth as a memorial
and a visible sign of the hand of God in the history of the world. Israel
fulfils its destiny by the fact that its survival in the midst of a hostile
environment demonstrates the presence of God's sovereignty on carth. But
Vv the Lord Who preserved Israel even in exile is the same God from Whom
Israel may also expect its eventual redemption. The name for God employed
in this psalm as compared to that used in Psalm 14 marks the essential
‏שי‎ difference between that Psalm and Psalm 53. In Chapter 14 the name of ‏ה‎
‎is used preponderantly, while Chapter 53 employs the designation of ‏אלקי'‎
‎throughout. In Chapter 14 emphasis is placed upon the Divine love with
which God trains Israel, and mankind in general, for their goal, a Jove that
Vv is demonstrated by God's protection of the exiled nation, and its eventual
redemption. In Psalm 53, on the other hand, we see God's judgment and
righteousness both in Israel’s preservation and in its liberation from exile.
‏ש‎ For our sages speak of two possible ways in which Israel may achieve
redemption, which, in Isaiah 60:22 ‏אני ה' בעתה אחישנה‎ is stated as follows:
‏זכר בעתח זכו אהישנה.‎ xy. That is, Israel will eventually be redeemed, even if,
by its conduct, it does not render itself fully deserving of redemption. If
Vv such is the case, then redemption will come ‏,בעתה‎ in accordance with the
goal set by a loving God for the evolution of mankind, at a time appointed
by Him for this purpose. If, on the other hand, Israel conducts itself in
‏ש‎ sach a manner as to prove worthy of redemption, then the Lord, judging
Israel in His righteousness, will hasten the day of liberation so that it will
-- come before the time originally set by Divine counsel. Hence the name of ‏ה'‎
‎is employed in Psalm 14 to signify the disciplining love of God's rule and
--- refers to redemption coming at God’s appointed time. "pbx, denoting God's
| reign of justice and used in Psalm 53 to the exclusion of any other desigaa-
tion for God, alludes to rederaption comine earlier than ‏הלחה‎ intended.