oe ‏19-ו‎ ie 0190 5 a ee ae 5 eee ‏ו‎
‎recompenses me for all I have lost and which gives blissful gratification to
oth my body and my soul. In like manner I had already come to sce Thee
in the Sanctuary; 1 came to see ‏עזך‎ and ‏ככודך‎ in everyday life.” It is in the
Sanctuary, which, in David's day, was the ‏,משכן‎ that God's invisible presence:
is enthroned over the Cherubim beneath whose wings is sheltered the
testimony of the Law enshrined in the ‏,דביר‎ the Abode of the Word of God.
‘This Law, the Torah, which reposes in the Ark of the Covenant, has been

5, endowed by God with invincible might so that one day it will reign supreme

0 over all human affairs: It Is ₪ symbol of ‏,עזך‎ the victorious might of God.
‘Therefore the Ark is called py ‏ארון‎ (Psalm 132:8). This Divine Law,
enshrined in the Holy of Holics, the ‏,דביר‎ grants us spiritual light, which
was synibolized in the ‏היכל‎ by the ‏מנורה‎ at the right hand side of the Ark,

Vv and also physical welfore as symbolized by the ‏,טולחן‎ the “prepared table”
at the Ieft side. These physical and spiritual aspects of welfare granted us
‘by God through His Law are ‏,בבוד ה'‎ a revelation of God's glory, a mani-
festation of His blessed presence in the midst of a generation of mankind
4 that dedicates itself in loyalty to the fulfillment of that law, and whose
endeavor it is to make 8 living reality of His word: ‏שו לי מקדש ושכנתי בתוכם‎
and ‏בכל המקום אשר אוכיר את שמי אבוא אליך וברכתיך‎ (Cf. Psalm 27:4). David
‏ש‎ speaks to his people as follows, “I have come to know God not only now
that I have lost everything else and all I have left is God and my relation-
ship to Him. No, long ago, when I still moved freely in the midst of my
country, I had Iearned in God's Sanctuary to look to Him and to Him
Vv alone, to seek all my physical welfare and spiritual life from His hand and
from His Law which He has gitded with victorious majesty. Even in the
midst of blessed bounty my lips never ceased to utter the truth that
‏שי‎ God’s mercy is far more precious than life itself. It is only God's loving
‘kindness that gives life its truc, laudable value.” (This is the literal meaning
of ‏,שבח‎ related to you, ‏,שו ,שבע‎ yay, all of which expresses an abundance
of values). “Even now, when I am in the midst of want and distress, I
Vv experience ali that which I had leaned to perceive when happiness and
abundance were mine, Although deprived of all physical comfort and
sustenance, my soul and body long only for God and ycam to experience
-7-- His blessed neamess.”
| V. 5. = ‏,כן אברכך וגז'‎ To repeat: The Sanctuary teaches us not only to
accept all physical and spiritual fife fewm (at eheanah she hand af Ute