5 Ty (Zech, 2:12) and thus should be interpreted as the “eyelid”, not “the
apple of the eye", as Rashi in ‏בכורות‎ 380 states that ‏בבא‎ is the Chaldean word
for “gate”, “door” and therefore denotes the opening and closing of the eye
by means of the eyelid. We have, in Verse 12 of Lamentations 2, the state-

‎weeps. Now tears do‏ בת ‎where it is said that the Py‏ ,אל חדום בת עינך ‎ment‏ שי
‎not come from the apple of the eye; they appear on the eyelids, The tachrymal‏
‎gland lies on the outer edge of the eye socket, and there is a minute opening‏
‎on the lower rim of the eyelid for the drainage of tears into the nasal cavity.‏

‎Vv ‘Thus we read in Jer. 9:17: ‏מום‎ tor ‏תעפעפיר‎ 12811 prays to God as follows:
“Keep me as the eyelid protects the apple of the eye, As the eyelid guards
the apple of the eye from all that could injure it, so do Thou keep away from

‎Vv me everything that could endanger my moral welfare. Should it be necessary
for me to suffer for this purpose, then do not spare me from such pain,
‏,בצל וגו"‎ but protect me, lest I succumb as a result of my tribulations.”

‎“Give me protection from the lawless. They have‏ ,מפנל ור ‎V.9,‏ ש
‎already robbed me of all my worldly possessions so that their continued‏
‎attacks upon me can bring them no further material gain. They surround‏
‎inimical to me in their very souls. Now that I have become‏ ,אויבי בנפש ‎me as‏

‎Vv destitute, their animosity is no longer directed at my earthly goods but at the
principles which I cherish and which are so much in opposition to their
own ideology.”

‎Vv ‏סגרו וגו" .10 יר‎ walt. Nor can fear of counter-attack by me be
the cause of their continued hatred, for they have carefully locked up and

‎--- hidden their “fat” (their precious possessions). They need fear ne robbery
and so they are not afraid. This is what they state so proudly with their lips.

‎What makes them hate us is our righteous way of‏ .אשרנו וג" .11 יר
‎life. Now that they have surrounded us they have set their eyes upon our‏ |