Nn fulfillment of life’s tasks, the Torah is the guide for his thinking, his desires
and his actions, It protects him against the ways and by-paths of the ‏רשעים‎
‎and the ‏.חטאים‎ The ‏,לילה‎ the night, when man rests from his daily Iabors and
turns to his perceptive and sensitive inner being, is devoted to the ‏,תורה‎ to
“study”. His leisure hours are utilized to entich and ennoble his mind and
his emotions through ever-growing recognition of all that is good and true,
by ever-renewed and increasing enthusiasm for gdodness and truth. In this
manner be shall remain far from ‏מושב לצים‎ forever,

‎is that active thinking which demands expression. Thus also the‏ הגה

‎natural animal sounds ‏אהגה כיתה‎ (Isaiah 38:14) ‏האריה‎ mar ‏כאשר‎ )4.

‎31:4) and the thoughtful expression of human specch: ‏ולשוני תהנה צדקך‎

‎5 (Psalm 35:28). Hence it is also the very specific expression denoting the
thoughtful “study” of the Torah, which essentially is not attained through

‎mere thoughts without words but, instead, requires even from him who

‎“studies alone the precise verbal expression of the thought which is being

‏לא ימוש ספר התורה הזה ‎brought to life. Joshua, too, was charged as follows:‏ ש
‎is the result of active thinking‏ הגה ‎(Joshua 1:8). Thus‏ מפיך והגית בר יומם וליל
‎a3 well as thoughtful verbal expression.‏

‎Through this absorption of all'his thoughts, endeavors and‏ .חהיה = .2 ./ר

‎etc. According to an explanation of‏ ,כעץ ‎he becomes‏ ,תורה ‎actions into the‏ שי
‎is‏ נטע ‎is not synonymous with yo.‏ שתל ‎‘our sages (Abodsh Zarah 19a),‏

‎the original planting, ‘nv, however, is the transplanting of young shoots into

‎soil best suited for their growth. It appears to be phonetically related to the‏ ש
‎Rabbinic vw, the expression of earnest endeavor. This expression is highly‏
‎appropriate to the foregoing explanations, He draws nourishment for the‏
‎development of his mind and character, not from the environment in which‏

‎Vv he happens to find himself by accident of birth or circumstances, but after
serious deliberation he implants himself at the Source, where he can develop
‏ספ‎ as to assure for himself prosperity and welfare. As is stated in Verse 2,

‎this source is, of course, the Torah. There could be some doubt as to the‏ שי
‎used here. One might suppose that the‏ פלגי ‎significance of the plural form‏
‎tree could stand by one brook, but it could certainly not stand near many at‏
‎the same time. Perhaps, therefore, this is intended to convey the thought‏

‎Vv that though there are many brooks, he, deliberately, planted himself only at
that place where he shall receive the best nourishment. But if one considers

‎_ that, actually, ‏פלג‎ means “to divide,” “'to go apart,” then ‏פלגי מים‎ would denote
many separate branches of water, all springing from the same source, many
brooks stemming from one common reservoir. This would be the real alfe-

‎| gorical description of the Torah which, from the One Source of the Divine