furthermore, ‏עשה טוב‎ do not neglect any opportunity to do good. It is not
sufficient merely to desire what is good, but ‏עשה‎ you must not rest until
you have brought it about, shaped it and accomplished it. The "ppp, in
‏,עשה-טוב‎ connecting the two words, lends added emphasis to this point;

5 “do not hesitate, do not delay when it comes to doing good.” But remember

0 that ‏עשה טוב‎ comes only after ‏.סור מרע‎ Guard yourself against doing a
‏.מצוה הבאה בעברה‎ Do not seek to use evil means to attaln an end that ₪
good in itself, nor attempt to use ‏מצות‎ as a means for compensating for
‏.עכדות‎ Atonement for ‏עברות‎ can be made only by refraining from sin in the

‎fature and by making amends wherever that is possible. Do not think for one‏ שי
‎to‏ מצות ‎because, or if you have‏ עכרות ‎moment that you can afford to commit‏
5 ;עשה טוב ‎first, and then‏ סור מרע ‎your credit in other phases of your life,‏
‎in some respects. Once you have done jus-‏ עושה טוב ‎even if you are‏ ,סור מרע

‎4 tice to your duties toward God and are in full accord with His Law by shun-
ning evil in thought, word and deed, and by doing good, then ‏,בקש שלום‎ 0
seek to have peaceful relations with your fellow-men. Indeed, ‏רדפהו‎ literally

‎Vv “pursue it.” Do not let it go when it threatens to elude your grasp. If it
is about to leave you, preserve it even at the risk of personal sacrifice.
‘Of course you must never sacrifice the principle of ‏טוב‎ mm ‏מרע‎ “ne for
the sake of preserving ‏שלום .שלום‎ is by no means to be the one supreme

‎Vv goal for which everything else must be cast aside. We may sacrifice, nay
we should sacrifice for the sake of peace only that which is ours to give away,
such as personal interest, personal advantages, our own claims and our

‎Vv honor. But peaceful relations with our fellow-men, however desirable such
a state may be, can never atone for any discord we may have with God.
‘Whenever it is a matter of ‏סור מרע ועשה טוב‎ we must be ready, if necessary,

‎to chance the opposition and hostility even of an entire world and to stand‏ ש
‎alone, with God and our sense of duty as our only 31165.‏

‎-- V. 16,17. ‏.עינר וגז'‎ In Verses 14 and 15 we have the description
of the personality of a ‏,צדיק‎ that is, of a person who is loyal to his duty,
and who therefore bas been promised eternal bliss even on earth below

‎| (Verse 13). This promise is based upon the fact that '1 ‏,עיגי‎ Divine prov-
idence. fe tured inward euch men eto ot