constitutes a sequel to Psalm 16 by virtue of this expression of the blissful
joy derived from the mind’s recognition of God both in this life and in the
‏ב‎ world to come,
prs is the ideal of righteousness inherent in the task to be discharged
by every individual as well as the ideal state of the conditions of human
affairs. God's rule has as its goal the cventual realization of this ideat. Here
‏צדק‎ is the conception formed in David’s mind based on this ideat of human
v destiny and Divine Sovereignty. “Heat, 0 Lord, how I strive to understand
the ideal of pv.”
ann. A study of the connections in which the words ‏רנן‎ and ‏רנה‎
‎Vv occur, reveals that 127 in general is the expression of a great, profound inner
agitation, evoked either by a joyous, happy event or by a sad or solemn occa-
sion. Therefore the word ‏רנה‎ also refers to an expression of emotion that takes
place before God. Its meaning is related to ‏,תפלה‎ and thus is also found
Vv in combination with the latter word, as in ‏אל הרגה ואל התפלה‎ youd )1 Kings
8:28) and Jer. 7:16; 11:14. Employed in this sense, ‏רנה‎ scems to be an
‘outpouring of emotion, an expression of feeling, while ‏תפלה‎ is more in the
‏שי‎ realm of the mind and intellect,
‏,בלא שפתי מרמה‎ See above.
- 2. | ‏.מלפניך וגו'‎ “Let that judgment which I seek in ‏תפלה‎ be such
‏שי‎ that it corresponds with Thy own evaluation of me. Guided by the true
understanding of self which I seck to attain by means of my ‏,תפלה‎ I shall
search for the judgment as scen from Thy standpoint. ‘pind 1 seek no self-
deception.”
Vv ‘V3. ‘mma. “The sufferings which Thou hast sent me were not
— intended to punish me for some wrong I might have done, but were visited
upon me solely in order to try and to cleanse me, I presumed to think that
-- this is indeed so, but I have never revealed this thought of mine to any other
| man.” ‏זמם‎ is a thought composed of many subordinate perceptions and
deliberations, See Gen. 11:6. By no means ace mint alarwe refer ‏טוחה‎ tn