for me? Hope in God, for ¥ shall ‏כּרשר‎ ong, ‏תחמי 8+ הוקילי‎
yet praise Him for the salvation ? . ‏לוה‎ 8
of my countenance, and because ‏ארג שעת פָי לפ‎
A He is my God.
PSALM XLII

1) Judge me, O God, and ‏אֶלהווְליבָה רִיבִי‎ wey a ID
plead my cause against a nation ‏תלת‎ FO ‏מאיש‎ Ton x “0
which does not work loving-kind- 77°F ‏דד דוט‎ 9 bom
ness; O deliver me from a man oper
of deceit and violence.

5 own aspirations which we subordinate to His wishes even though we may
do so only painfully and with resignation. But at the end of the psalm,
we find Israel has come to understand that it will yet see that, in fact,
yap ‏ישועת‎ had actually been ‏.ישועת פני‎ Israel will find that, actually, there
has never been any conflict between the goals set by God and those toward

4 which we must strive in troth. Israel will come to realize, too, that all the
days of exile, even the darkest ones, served only to advance our own true,
genuine happiness and to help us fulfill the destiny which is the goal of our

Vv mission in the history of the world. Israel will understand that, with all
this, He has proven to be ‏אלקי‎ the creator, leader and guide of Israel all
through the world’s history, even as He has ever been from the very beginning
of our existence as a nation. Therefore Israel has no reason 86 811 for maw,

v and must thank the Lord rot only for Y2p ‏ישועת‎ but also for the ‏ישועת פני‎
which is part of the former.

‎PSALM XLII‏ ש

‎This psalm is a continuation of Chapter 42. The tragedy‏ .1 ער
‎of Israel's exile is a two-fold one; it must take up the struggle against the‏

‎nations as a whole and at the same time fight against individual men of these‏ ש
‎with‏ ,3 לא ‎nations, Israel charges the national entities with being ron‏
‎failure to practice the humaneness to which they pay lip service, and‏
‎particularly with failure to show such kindness to Israel. To them Israel‏

‎Vv is not an entity worthy of receiving common decency. And men who are
wicked, unjust and violent take advantage of the position of helpless desti-
tution which the nations in their unkindness and inhumanity have assigned

‎-- to Israel, in order to perpetrate acts of wrong and violence against the latter,

‎| Israel has recourse only to God against both the inhumanity of the alien
communities and the violence of individnate. ‏שהומ‎ and ‏רומ‎ followed hv