-= -.---------
word ‏רחם‎ occurs in the Kal form. ‏רָהֶם‎ (derived from om, “the womb")
indicates the show of love which the begetter feels for his offspring, simply

5 because the latter is his child. By the same token, the word am when used
in the Kal form may express the love of the offspring for its parent, the
love of a child for his father who, he realizes, is the source of his cxist-
ence, In this one first sentence which stands at the outset of Psalm 18,
David condenses all the thoughts and emotions which come to him as he |

4 looks back upon his long life. ‘pm ‏ה*‎ yom. “The Lord is the source
of all that I am; 1 owe it to Him that I still exist and that 1 have survived !
all that which I have had to suffer, He is my Father and my Strength

Vv which has proven itself in my unbowed perseverance, ‏קל‎ my fortitude,
which I have derived from His support.” 1

‘V.3, "a ‏ה' סלעי‎ expresses the various ways in which God has shown

‎His love for David during the latter's long life. Looking back over the years,‏ ש
‎David remembers three distinct manifestations of God's love that he has‏
‎protective and |‏ ,סלעי ומצודתי ומפלטי ‎experienced. First, he refers to God as‏
‎*x, endowing and shaping, and finally |‏ צורי אחסה בר ‎saving; then he calls Him‏

‎Who thus has led David to the *‏ ,מגני וקרן ישעי משגבי ‎he addresses Him as‏ ש
‎climax of his career of a lifetime of service. The Lord has turned away from‏
‎his‏ ,סלעו ‎David everything that threatencd to destroy him, The Lord was‏

‎Rock; He helped him rise over all that is lowly and base, to a mountainous‏ ש
‎height where evil and meanness could not reach him. He was also David's‏
‎which sheltered him. The Lord confined and surrounded‏ ,מצודה ‎Fortress,‏
‎him, keeping him from dissipating his energies on attacks against the‏

‎enemy while at the same time thwacting the plots of David's adversaries.‏ ש

‎At other times, the Lord was his ‏,מפלם‎ He allowed David to be threatened

‎--- by danger, but also helped him emerge unscathed, ‏פלימ‎ (see Gen. 14:13)
a is “a person who escaped danger”, a “refugee”. ‘Therefore byp means “to
| help someone escape danger”, “to deliver” another person. ‏תפלמ פרתר ולא‎

‎‘svn (Job 21:10) refers to the act nf Neth "The Tard andomad Movi