----- enn neon nee nen en nnn nn EE
out or through degeneration from within—is the ultimate fate of the wicked
on earth.

V. 3, ‘na ‏.בטח‎ nya related to nnp, “to be without a lock or walls”
denotes that faith in God which makes a person feel secure because he is
aware of God’s presence and of His loving care, and which makes him entrust

3S, his fate entirely to God even when every outward support and protection
seem to be absent. David says, “Unlike the ‏מרעים‎ and the ‏עושי עולה‎ whose
roots lic in the earth, sink your own roots in the Lord, in Him, ‏ה'‎ Who,
as His Name implies, has all the future in His hands and shapes it.” “It is
to Him alone that ctemity belongs, Eternity can belong to you, also, if

4 you, too, are willing to be His.” ‘na ‏בטח‎ “Entrust your fate and the outcome
‘of all your endeavors and aspirations to the Lord, and ‏,עשה טוב‎ your only

concer should be to do good wherever you can and as much as you can.

Vv Do not concern yourself with whether men appreciate your aspirations or
mock them; whether they encourage your endeavors or inhibit them. All

this should not trouble you ss long as you know that what you are doing is

‎is an expression‏ שכן ארץ ‎‘good’ and finds favor in the eyes of the Lord.”‏ ש
‎which we shall often find in this book. We shall also frequently note‏

‎is preponderantly used to denote “having an‏ שכן .)11 ‎(Verse‏ ירש ארץ

‎undisturbed, quiet, permanent dwelling place"—therefore it is employed

‎(Psalm 102:29). But it also‏ בני עבדיך ישכונו ‎as an absolute concept, as in‏ ש
‎means “to dwell adjacent to another person,” “to be a neighbor.” Therefore‏

‎means “a neighbor” that is, to have one’s dwelling place adjacent to‏ שכך

‎that of another, so that both parties dwell peacefully side by side, without,‏ ש
‎however, either one losing his separate identity thereby. (Cf. Commentary‏

‎to Gen, 9:27), As opposed to ‏ארץ ,שכן‎ is constantly in a state of wandering.

‎“In the midst of all this instability of earthly things, seek and secure‏ שבן ארץ

‎Vv for yourself a quiet, stable existence. It is true that you must have an
intimate relationship with earthly things. As a matter of fact, they will be

‎₪ the foundation and the basic essentials for all of your life and for whatever
you might wish to do in this world. But do not allow yourselves to be

‎| absorbed by them, do not let them deprive you of your separate identity.