ns
away,” “to cast off.” It denotes the removal of an object which is too heavy
to lift. In other words, “Let God bear for you those burdens which you
cannot lift by your own strength, which ase too heavy for you to carry
alone on your life's path, Of course, you must always do your own share,
too, to the best of your strength and ability. But when your own resources:
are at an end, then rely upon God to do the rest, He will lend His aid to
those of your endeavors that are wholesome in His eyes and He will see
them through to successful conclusion.” The realization that our own
strength may be inadequate must never cause us to sink back into inertia.
5 Tt must never cause us to refrain from a good endeavor because of the
7 dificulties involved that may seem insurmountable. Let us keep in mind
that we have a mighty Helper in God in ali our good endeavors. Let us
do our share; the Lord will do the rest. ~3 nva is “to have confidence in
someone,” to be assured that he will do that which has been expected of
‏שי‎ him, ‏על-‎ mba is “to put one’s trust in someone,” to find peace and renewed
faith in the thought that there is Someone Who sustains us.
V. 6. "x ‏.דהוציא‎ There is one ili, which man can hardly eliminate
‏שי‎ by dint of his own effort. It is a very real handicap to all of his desires and
endeavors in the midst of his fellow-men and can inflict grievous hurt even
upon the best of human beings. That is, ungratefulness and even slander
that is cast upon the honesty of a person and the purity of his motives.
Vv “But here, too,” David tells us, “put your trust in the Lord. No rightcous
‘man ever Seaves this world without some day receiving from it his rightful
due and the appreciation he deserved for the upright life he has Ied.
Vv ‏-צדקך .והוציא כאור צדקך.‎ It may be that your righteousness, the ideal of
rectitude that motivates all your 2ctions, will remain obscured for a long
time by those that hate or envy you. But in the end the Lord will break
‏ש‎ through these ‘clouds’ that dim your light. He will let your righteousness
shine forth in its full glory and He will let ‏משפטך‎ your rightful due, your
right (as in ‏הכהנים‎ weve—Deut, 18:3), ‏משפט הנער‎ (Judges 13:12} or the
fudgment of your fellow-man in accordance with your ‏,צדק‎ become as plain
Vv for you as the bright noonday.” ‏,משפטך‎ in the Roedelheim edition of ‏,תקפ"ה‎
‎the word ‏משפטיך‎ appears in the plural form. The reason for this would be
dificult to explain, since the plural of the word is not usually employed with
——— reference to human beings. As a matter of fact, those older editions to
| which 1 have had access, do use the singular form ‏,משפטך‎