OPT RT ‏קה )זע‎ 7"
1( A Psalm of David, upon 39 of
his flight from his son Absalom. hp ‏מל‎
‎A a
This second part of the psalm ends with 12 ‏,אשרי כל חוסי‎ just as the
first one has begun, and, by the word ‏,כל‎ comprises the individual and the
groups. Individuals and nations alike can stride forward to salvation only if
they put all their teust in God and not in the endeavors in which they cannot
count upon the approval of God and thus cannot rely on His help. ‘ow,
derived from ron, the intensified mmm, to look—is the most fervent, most
expectant looking up to something; ic., “trust.”
3 PSALM Ii
‘V. 1. ‏לדוד‎ sem. It is surely not without some profound reason,
that this psalm was placed immediately after the one preceding, in which
David appears in the full grandeur of his calling to win over mankind to the
homage of the Divine moral Law. This third psalm stands in the sharpest
v contrast to such grandeur, portraying David as it does, in the throes of a
degrading sin against this same moral faw. This sin had to be expiated by
means of the grievous tragedy both in David's rule as a king and in his family
Vv life. ‘This sequence of the psalms teaches us how far removed Jewish ideology
js from the cult of the idealization of our great men, from endowing them
with superhuman perfection. Under the glaring jight of this truth the weak
ness and errors of our giants, as well as their virtues, voice the most effective
v proclamation in support of allegiance to the moral law. This truth does not
whitewash transgressions, and it shows us how God, in His incorruptible jus-
tice, can exact the most penitent expiation even from His most precious in-
‏שי‎ struments on earth, Ordinary, weak mortals are taught by their example not to
Perish in their aberrations, but, instead, to find thei way, out of the depths
of depravity, to the lofty height of the neamess of God. If mankind, having
steayed from the moral law, is to be led back to unreserved allegiance to that
Vv law, it can reach this stage only by achieving victory over itself through
struggles within and without, and only the strains of the harp of David can
guide it upon the way towards that goal, The tone of his lyre, exalting men
‏שי‎ even as it shows them the way, sounds forth here from this psalm in the
grandeur of its simplicity, Carried away by passionate sensuality, David, the
--- King, has broken the moral law and destroyed the domestic felicity of one
of his subjects. Now he must atone for his sin; he is compelled to flee from his
‘own son who has deprived him of both his throne and his home. Rebellion
| and the reproach and judgment of his people deliver him up to hopeless