—
101 ‏תתלים מו‎
from and cultivated in the House of the Lord. In accordance with what he
has learned in the House of God, the good man of whom Psalm 15 speaks
despises ali that is blameworthy even when he is in the midst of the hubbub
‘of daily life outside the house of worship. He disdains evil even if he beholds
Nn it clothed in the glitter of wealth and high society. He honors him who fears
the Lord, even if this righteous man be garbed in beggar’s rags. Moral blame,
rejection of that which is ethically unworthy is always expressed by the term
pxm, Thus we also read ‏מאס ברע ובחור בטוב‎ (Isaiah 7:15), and the compari
son of moral evil to metallic dross ‏כסף נמאס קראו להם כי מאס ה' בהם‎ (Jer.
6:30), ‏.גבזה וגו"‎ The usc of the present tense here shows the attitude which
he holds as regards social relationships is in comptete conformity with that
which he expresses in his prayers im the House of God. When he bows his
head before the Ark of God's Law, he does not at the same time prostrate
his heart to the scorners of the Law because they are wealthy, nor does he
\ deny due honor to the observant man just because that person may be in
5 a lower social class than he.
POUND ‏.נטבע להרע‎ In Lev. 5:4, ‏,או נפש בי תשבע \גו' להרע או להיטיב‎
the word pun? in the vow indicates a denial, just as ‏להיטיב‎ expresses the
granting of a favor (see Commentary), and we could very well interpret ‏בשבע‎
‏שי‎ ‘ya ‏להרע ולא‎ to mean, “and since he bas sworn to deny himself a certain
thing, he will not change his vow". However, it would be difficult to combine
this thought with ‏.גבזה וגו' חאת יראי וגו'‎ The phrase ‘m1 ‏כספו‎ is preceded and
followed by descriptions of social relationships, Nan? ‏אדם‎ Paw ‏מצות‎ Accord-
‏ש‎ ing to the interpretation advanced above, ‏,נשבע להרע וגל'‎ coming as it does,
between two thoughts on intec-human relations, would seem awkward here,
since it would then express a matter of conscience that concerns God alone.
Vv Ta addition, the word ‏מור‎ elsewhere is never used to denote a breach of
promise, a change in a pronouncement or in a vow, etc., but usually occurs to
indicate an exchange of one object for another, a replacement of a good
object with something inferior, as noted in the Commentary to Lev. 5:4
Vv and 27:10, We therefore think that we must take the word yin? not as an
infinitive Hiphil form, but as a noun, 1.6. “evil”, synonymous with ‏,לרע‎ as in
Chronicles II 10:7, where ‏להעם‎ is substituted for the more common ‏;לעם‎ or
‏שי‎ as in Psalm 36:6, where ‏בהשמים‎ is put instead of ‏,בשמים‎ or as in Sam. 1
3:14, where we read ‏.נשבעתי לבות עלי‎ So we have here ‏להרע‎ paws, Then it
would logically join the preceding phrase ‏נבזה וגו" ואת יראי וגו'‎ and the word
‏ימיר.‎ would be understood in its actual meaning: “So has he sworn to evil,
Vv ‘that which is blameworthy is despicable to me and I shall honor these who.
fear the Lord’ and he will not change this vow.” A great strength of charac-
ter is needed to despise everything that is morally evil in our social relation-
— ships and to honor all that is good, and only that which is good. ‘Thus, if we
really are to fortify oursclves in advance against all temptations to disregard
this principle, it might be necessary for we ta taka a colema ‏הומת‎ tn decict