in order 10 ANG Delp and understanding, fe already Heard me and saved
me out of, or from, all of my fears.” This can mean either “He actually
delivered me from all the dangers which I feared” or “He granted me such
peace of mind that all fears departed from me.” In accordance with the
context, and because mention of actual help is not made in the psalm before
Verse 7, we would be led to believe that the latter interpretation is probably
the correct one, Na is to “tose all inner support,” “to feel the ground slip
away under one’s feet,” as it were, even as 1, when used with reference
3S, to human society, denotes one who is homeless, who is not entitled to any
place or land of his own.
‏.ער‎ 6, "ur ‏.הביטו‎ “Iam not the only one to have had this experience,”
says David, “All those who ever looked to the Lord received a ray of
Tight from above even as they looked heavenward.” ‏נהר‎ as in ‏ואל תופע‎
v ‏עליר נהרת‎ (Job 3:3). “In is the “streaming forth" of both ight and water.
It is synonymous with 1, from which we derive ‏,גר‎ even as ‏בהן‎ is related
to N3, ‏כהן‎ to N2, ‏רהב‎ to ‏,רוב‎ etc. Ion, im the active mood, is used with
‏שי‎ reference to the digging of a well and also to the exploration of unknown
territory. Its basic meaning most likely is “to expose something that has
been hidden heretofore,” Hence, in the intransitive form in which it is
employed here, in Psalm 35:4 and elsewhere, it expresses the feeling of
Vv shame experienced by a person when an unpleasant fact concerning himself,
which he would rather have kept concealed, is brought to light. In most
instances it is used in combination with ‏,בוש‎ the expression denoting that
‏שי‎ sense of shame which comes when one finds that he has been deceived in
his expectations, ‏יבוש ויתפרו‎ (Psalm 35:26) and elsewhere, meaning to say
that one feels humiliated because his expectations have not come to pass
‏שי‎ and particularly, that he is ashamed of himself for ever having cherished
such expectations. In this verse the thought is as follows, “Those who look
to sources other than God Himself will yet come to be ashamed that they
ever looked to such earthly powers for help and guidance. Those who look
Vv up to God, however, will receive the answer to their prayer immediately in
the form of that ray of light which brightens their minds and spirits, and
_ they will never have cause to 1601 ashamed for having looked up to God in
faith and confidence.” We have translated the word ‏חפר‎ by “pale” because,
when it refers to ‏,פנים‎ it denotes the terror showing on the face of a person
| who has just been unmasked for what he really is.