1 ------ --=--- ‏יי‎ EO
5 ‏שמים וגו" .9 .ער‎ nox, The word ‏דרך‎ denotes a “way” in general, a
movement toward a specific goal, hence also the individual ways of men—
‏השחת דרך‎ actually means “moral decay.” ‘The word ‏,אורח‎ on the other hand,
is usually employed to denote the way of society, the paths that lead from
‏שי‎ man to man. For nm means "10 associate” with someone; ny man? ‏ארח‎
‏פועלי אוך‎ (Job 34:8). ‏אורח‎ is the “wanderer,” the “guest,” and ‏ארוחה‎ is hospi-
tality, the accommodation of a guest. “Yea, He strides over the paths of the
seas” which thus cease to be partitions and instead become waterways linking
v the continents, This last stroke of the pen in the picture of human supremacy
in the world is quite typical, The entice theme of this psalm is that, once man
will understand his purpose on earth and will act accordingly, his supremacy
‏שי‎ on earth should help spread the recognition and worship of God throughout
the world. Man’s inventive genius, too, is hamessed in the service of the
eventual unification of mankind in the praise of the One God. For it is this
inventive genius which, by bridging the seas that divide continents, will
4 reunite the family of man which has been scattered to the ends of the earth
ever since the dispersion of the nations at Babel. In times of moral corrp-
tion, human inventiveness may help disseminate ideas Ieading to error and
‏שי‎ degeneration, but the time will come when the human mind will use its
faculties to spread, from pole to pote, the knowledge of all that is good
and true.
V, 10. ‘ar wink 'n. This psalm sees only the Jewish tribe of the
4 1011 of man as accepting God as the “Lord and Master” of life. Eventual
— ly, however, God, Whose existence is reaffirmed by the Divine writing upon
the starry skies, will be given praise all over the earth, When man will
-- worship God as the master of all his life—an existence dedicated to the service
of the Lord, he will come to see his own powers and limitations cach in their
| true perspective. This new understanding on his nart will result in the