unscrupulous person. For they believe that everyone else is as they are and
therefore they will hardly ever suspect the motives of another human being.
‘The way in which they will react to any given situation is easily predictable,
5 for they will always act in accordance with well-known, definite principles
from which they will not depart,
‏בסכה .יארב וגר בסכה  .9 .ער‎ is written here with the feminine ending ‏ה‎
‎instead of with the masculine ending of 1. He hides his strength and might in
his lair; if one beholds him sitting thus, he appears almost effeminately mild,
Vv It seems to be merely an innovent ‏,סכה‎ but it is 190, his lair which conceals.
destruction. Cf. Ps. 27:5. ‏חטף‎ is “to grab” something, as in Judges 21:21,
‏.במשכו ברשתר‎ This allegory, too, would indicate that, as we have stated in
‏שי‎ our commentary to Verse 8, we are not dealing here with actual murder, but
with social ruin. “He hides in ambush and has cast out the nets of his plans
and machinations in which the unsuspecting suddenly find themselves caught.”
‏ש‎ V. 10. ‏ישה‎ roy. 707, like ‏דבא‎ (from which is derived ‏,דכא‎ “the
depressed one"), “to act humble”, From this we also have 7373 (Psalm
51:19); ‏,לב נדבה‎ the depressed heart. ‏ישח‎ is the Kaf form of mp, “to bow”.
‘He shows himself as a man depressed by external circumstances, mn, and
Vv also as onc who is very humble and therefore bows low. This intespretation
is based on the ‏.קרי‎ According to the ‏,כתים‎ however, it would read nam, and
would thus mean ‏ישח‎ rom, “and he bows low since he is a nian oppressed
Vv from without”. Beneath his sham humility he feels that modesty bebooves
only those oppressed by external circumstances, and false humility is there-
fore part of the mask put on by the ‏.ונפל בעצומיר וגו' .דכה‎ In Isaiah 1
‏שי‎ any striking evidence upon which a lawsuit is based is called ‏קרבו נעצומות‎
‏,קרבו ריבכם וגו' הגישו עצמתיכם‎ “incontestable instruments.” It very likely has
—— the same meaning here and would thus support our interpretation. He takes
advantage of the perplesities of the ‏עניים‎ the dependent, and finally catches
| them in his hands by means of incontestable instruments of evidence against
them.