“My welfare ‘does not reach up to Thee’,” like in ‏עלתה עליהם‎ wim (Joshua
2:8), 'a ‏ותתפלל על‎ )1 Sam, 1:10), ‏על ה' ולא ענם‎ (Psalm 18:42) and elsewhere.
snaw. naw is carthly happiness, welfare. Thus we have ‏לראת בטובת‎
‏בחירך‎ (Psalm 106:5) and ‏נשיתי טובה‎ (Lament. 3:16).
Vv. 3.  םישודקל,‎ 16. ‏קדושים ,טובתי לקדושים‎ “holy”, superterrestrial
5 beings who are close to God, as in ‏בסוד קדושים רבה‎ (Psalm 89:8), ‏הן בקדשיו‎
per’ ‏לא‎ (Job 15:15), as opposed to ‏אף כי וגו" איש ונו'‎ (in Verse 16), ‏ובא ה'‎
oy ‏אלקי' כל קדושים‎ (Zechariah 14:5), ‏עיר וקדוש‎ (Daniel 4:10), etc.
‏אשר בארץ המה‎ denotes a contrast to the exaltation of God Whom
David erroneously thought to be far removed from all things pertaining to
Vv the earth. Cf. from the ruling and shaping influence which the heavenly
bodies exert on the earth ‏תשים משטרו בארץ‎ OX (Job 38:33). ‏אשר בארץ המה‎
denotes those who belong into the terrestrial world, or, those who rule the
Vv world, who govern the earth. ‏כל חפצי בם‎ “IR, MIT stat. consir., who
therefore are so powerful that they are the ones who supply all my wants, and
folfil and grant all my requests pertaining to my happiness here on carth. It
is indeed true that all our desires here below and all our earthly destiny are
Vv shaped and governed by the forces and infivences emanating from the physico-
al world. The question troubling David here is as follows: Are these
physical forces which help shape life completely subordinate to God’s Sover-
Vv eignty and guidance? Do they serve to fulfill or deny our wishes only in
their capacity as messengers and executors of God’s will or do they rule
‘our lives under their own power, uninflucnced by any superior Being? One
‏ש‎ day, in a moment of weakness, the thought occurred to David that our
destiny does not depend upon God. True, he still did believe that we stand
under God's Sovereignty in all our active lives, and that we owe Him uncon-
ditional obedience. However, our woe and weal, our fate on earth, is not
‏שי‎ dependent upon God’s loving care. David felt that our lives were shaped by
those forces that were closer to earthly affairs and which visibly influence
— the phenomena of the terrestrial world, where ovr wishes are fulfilled or
= refused.
V.4. "M ‏עצב ,עצבותם .ירבו עצבותם‎ is the pain of renunciation. Sce
‘Commentary to Gen. 3:16, 117, ‏מהך‎ is 10 creek the moet iatimate uning