1) By David, Judge me, O 1 0
Lord, for, as for me, Ihave walked "SP TH “WY aya ‏כו‎
‎in my integrity, and Lhave trusted NP YET MAN net ang
in the Lord that 1 shall not waver. ‏ֶמְעָר:‎
‎2) Examine me, O Lord, and _» ie
test me, cleanse my passions and FETS ‏[93נ‎ TW wR ₪
my heart, ane pay care
- ‏יר‎ 22.  'וגו‎ mp, When David, as ‏11--נעים זמירות ישראל‎ Sam. 23:1
incorporated Psalm 25 into the coltection of Israel's national hymns, be
added this final verse. The purpose of Verse 22 is to apply to the nationst
existence of the people of Israel as a whole, all the preceding statements

‎which stemmed from the personal experiences gathered by David during‏ ש
‎his own difficult life. For when God chastises His people by means of His‏
‎ways, He proceeds in much the same manner as He does when He secks to‏
‎discipline any one individual. He employs suffering in order to redeem‏

‎Vv nations and individuals alike from other ills. For the troubles which He
visits upon His people are intended only for its spiritual and moral better-
ment, and they cease as soon as the purpose for which they were inflcted

‎has been fulfilled.‏ ש

‎PSALM ‏]אא‎

‎For the explanation of the use of the superscription 11,‏ .1 יר ש
‎see Commentary to Psalm 25:1. In Psalm 26, too, we have simple state-‏
‎ments expressing the thoughts and emotions within David's soul. Here‏
‎David has set down the principles, attitudes and resolutions which have‏

‎guided all of bis life and his endeavors,‏ שי

‎hn ‏שפטני‎ “Judge, o Lord, how far 1 have advanced in my moral
endeavors, Judge Thou whether 1 am now upon the right path to what is

‎good and right. I have not walked nna, in absolute moral integrity, but‏ ש
‎‘my own’ moral integrity as 1 have understood and endeavored‏ בתמר ‎merely in‏

‎— to practice it, mustering all the strength of my being for this purpose.
Thus far I have merely let myself be guided by my own good intentions,

‎-- confident that the Lord would not allow me to stumble:”
| V. 2. ‏,בחננר וגו"‎ “I feel, however, that I must have Thy aid and