‘Woo gives man strength, and Who 15 ‏(ה' ימלוך לע"ו) מלכי‎ , Who rules over
man. Because He is ‏,אלי מלכי‎ His ways are ‏,בקדש‎ of absolute and inviolate
sanctity. If it is in God's plan to help a man, He will know how to render
5 him aid and will give him His guidance along the way. Therefore ‏קריעת‎
‎‘po o is the one historic moment to which David makes reference again
and again. 0
‘V. 26. "21 ‏,קדמו‎ When Israel beheld God's ways for the first time

‎then the singers went‏ ,א ישיר וגו" ,וירא ישראל וגו' ‎in its history as a nation,‏ ש
‎minstrels brought up the rear of the procession, and, in the‏ ,נגנים ‎Before,‏
‎or,‏ ,ותקה מרים את התוף ‎middle, there came maidens beating the timbrels.‏
.נגנים ‎and‏ שרים ‎formed a circle about the‏ עלמות תופפות ‎perhaps, the‏

‎When Israel stood upon the banks of the Red‏ ,במקהלות ‎‘V. 27. "a‏ ש
‎But ever since its exile, to which the verses‏ ,קהל ‎Sea, it was one united‏
‎far-flung con-‏ ,מקהלות ‎following Verse 21 refer, Israel has been dispersed in‏

‎gregations. David tells Israel, “Even as you blessed God on that day, when‏ ש
‎you stood united upon the banks of the Red Sea, now, even though you‏
‎bless Him in Whose service Israel will‏ ,מנינים ‎are dispersed in a thousand‏
‎from Israel’s very beginning.” Ever since that‏ ,ממקור ישראל ‎remain forever,‏

‎Vv day when we were taught by the miracle of the ‏ים סוף‎ to fear God and to
put our trust in Him, the ‏שירה‎ has not ceased to sound forth in Israel’s
amidst. ‏אז ישיך‎ is in ‏עתיד‎ pw, the future tense, signifying that the ‏שירה‎ will

‎Vv sound forth forever. Wherever since that time ten Jewish men gather to
worship God, they stand in spirit there where their fathers stood bodily
upon the banks of the Red Sea; they are always ‏.סומך גאולה לתפלה‎ This unique

‎moment in their past history has taught them to give themselves to God with-‏ ש
‎out reservation, and they constantly reaffirm their determination to fulfill‏

‎— theic life’s task in accordance with God’s will, ‏.ממקור ישראל‎ Eyen now we
still utter ‏.שירה חדשה‎

‎in the inner circle of‏ ,מקהלות ‎there, within the‏ ,שם ‎ow.‏ וג' .28 יר

‎| these scattered Jewish remnants, even the smallest, the weakest among the