--- ‏-ח'* .ה‎
with me, a prayer unto the God ₪
of my life.

“when I cannot behold Thy presence as I did in those days in thie Iand of the
Jordan, when waves of sufferings overwhelm me one after the other, even

5 ‘waves’ of this natuce summon one another to do Thy bidding as revealed
to them by Thy guidance.” -The literal translation of ‏צנוריך‎ would be
“Thy channels.” The great, billowy deep appears 125 an uncontrolled,
overpowering mass of water, but nevertheless the ocean moves with clock-
Bike regularity. God's almighty Law guides the mighty mass of waves just

‎channels,‏ צנורים ‎as man directs small quantities of water to form man-made‏ ש
‎So, too, it would appear to the superficial eye that the waves of suffering,‏
‎following one upon the other with ever-growing force, overwhelm Israel with‏

‎uncontrolled violence, but actually it is the Lord Who quietly guides and‏ ש
‎channels them all. "One wave of time calls to the other to obey Thy‏
‎dicections, to follow the lead of Thy guidance." One event forces the other‏
‎to move in the channels which the Lord has set for the course of time.‏

‎Vv ‏משברים ,כל משבריך וגליך עלי עברו‎ are waves which crash against a rock as
if in order to break it, but are broken by the rock instead. In other words,
their force is broken by the resistance of the very object which they meant

‎are the rolling waves which easily and‏ גלים ‎to destroy by their impact.‏ שי
‎effortlessly carry away that which has been delivered up to their power.‏
‎Alll the blows of fate that affect us scem to have as their purpose to destroy‏
‎our spirit, or else to camry us away so that we will‏ משבר ‎us by breaking‏

‎Vv cease to be the persevering, steadfast people of God. “But all their efforts
were of no avail,” Israel proudly proclaims, ‏עברר"‎ *y, they washed over me,
but I have remained steadfast. Why have ] been able to resist these on-

‎came from‏ גלים ‎and the‏ משברים ‎slaughts of fate? Simply because both the‏ שי
‎‘Thee. Thow didst not suffer the events of time to break us or to carry‏

‎— us away.”

‎V. 9. ‏ונר‎ op. “Thus even in ‏,גלות‎ God’s ‏שכינה‎ remains with me,

‎--- and 1 am able to perceive His rule, even though His hand is invisible and

‎| may only be surmised,” says Israel. “By the light of day, whenever a ray of