thiness, faith and honesty, haye vanished from society, Even more than altru-
ism, these qualities seem to have gone from the earth beyond recall. bo, derived
from dba, from which in turn we have ‏אפס‎ with the 8 at the beginning (like
‏אכך‎ from ‏(כך‎ signifies the complete disappearance. It should not be thought for
a moment that society can be preserved by the concept of right in the absence
of Iove, Once love has given way to egotism, then all feeling for what is
tight will also be smothered in this selfishness. Indeed, in the absence of
compassion, the sense of what is proper cannot exist. For compassion is

‎innate in the human spirit and can give rise to acts of loving-kindness even‏ ב
‎though every vestige of the sense of righteousness has vanished. But the‏
‎sense of what is right is not innate but depends upon careful reflection. Once‏
‎man has become incapable of love, he will surely be unable to follow the‏
‎paths of righteousness,‏

‎Vv ‏אמך‎ from which we derive the word nax, “truth”, denotes that upon
which we can base ourselves, therefore ‏אומך‎ is “the teacher”, who gives a
firm support to the student who may, at times, vacillate between right and

‎Vv wrong. ‏האמן‎ is to deem something to be so true and reliable that we base
ourselves upon it without misgivings. ux is the character of trustworthiness;
‏,אמוך‎ “trustworthiness”, that is ‏,אמונים‎ trustworthiness “in all things”, is the
basie prerequisite for all human relationships. Man must be able to put his

‎4 tuust in the opinions, words and deeds of his fellows. He must know that
jis brother’s mind recoils from wrong and is dedicated to the welfare of
others, He must be sure that his brother will not say or promise anything

‎Vv other than that which he feels to be true or possible of fulfillment to the best
of his knowledge and that his deeds are in conformity with his words and
not aimed at setting some pemicious trap for his neighbor. Once selfishness

‎has replaced altruism and respect for the dignity of one’s fellow man, there‏ ש
‎will be no room left for such mutual trust. The prime consequence of this‏
‎‘will be the complete corruption of that force that binds men to one another‏
‎and which is the most indispensable instrument in all human selationships—‏

‎Vv namely the sacredness of the human word. The passage that follows describes
such a state of affairs.

‎V. 3, ‏שוא ,שוא ירברו וג'‎ is the crassest contrast to the veracity of

‎> the spoken word. ‏קוא‎ can mean everything or nothing; it has no real content
(See Commentary to Exod. 20:7). ‏רע) רעהו‎ from ‏,רעה‎ “to graze”) is tho

‎| basic concept of the relationship that people should have toward one another.