‎NE ON‏ וו והות וו ו ו
‎eyes of men. They forget the Creator behind all this. ‘Their eyes and their‏
‎minds behold only the overwhelming force of the events themselves and they‏ ,5
‎The‏ .חשכת מים וגו' ‎fail to perceive Him Who caused them to come about.‏ 7
‎dark thunderclouds bear within themselves the most beneficial, fruitful ele~‏
‎‘ment. So, too, even the saddest and most fearful events carry some good in‏
‎their wake. Even the sunniest spring day was bon in the darkest hour of‏
‎thunder and lightning, yar mun, the dark clouds may veil the sun, but the‏ שי
‎knowing eye still sees its light shining from bebind some spot in the heavens‏
‎that is a little less overcast. Similarly, to the man who thinks in terms of God,‏
‎there is one light spot in the midst of the darkness of the times that reveals‏
‎first the‏ ,עביו עברו ברד וגחלי אש ‎v God's nearness and His presence to him.‏
‎storm of destruction is unleashed. Hailstones and coals of fire shoot through‏
‎the clouds, or, we may interpret this phrase to read, “Clouds break up into‏
‎hailstones and coals of fire”. At first glance, the former interpretation would‏ שי
‎seem to be the more plausible since thunder and lightning come first, presap-‏
ברד וגחלי אש ‎posing the presence of clouds. If we consider, however, that‏
‎are mentioned once more in Verse 14, and that it is only in Verse 14 that‏
‎some indication seems to be given of this ery precipitation, we might Jeave‏ 4
‎is used in Job‏ עבר ‎Pay, The root‏ עברו ‎room for another interpretation for‏
‎to denote pregnancy, a meaning in which the word is often employed‏ 21:10
‎“His steer makes pregnant and‏ ,שורו עבר ולא יגעיל ‎Vv in Rabbinic Eterature.‏
‎does not beget a miscarriage.” This meaning is probably derived from the‏
עבר ‎“to pass (out) over something”, from which we have‏ עבר ‎concept of‏
‎Vv “that which passes” (out) over the body, the outer side, the external area,‏
‎which means‏ ברה ‎(Exod. 32:15). Thus we also have‏ כתובים משני עבריהם
‎to be ‘beside oneself”, a violent state of agitation which cannot be contained‏
‎therefore, is pregnancy,‏ ,עיבור ‎a within oneself and clamors for expression.‏
‎“to bear within oneself a body which attempts to force its way out and which‏
₪ עיבורה של עיר ‎ia meant to emerge eventually from the mother’s womb”.‏ |