‎wedhy Of acl fate.‏ וקסע
‎distinguishes the Jewish idea of God from other concepts of Divinity, as‏
‎is particularly stressed in Psalm 113. yx is a slow, deliberate striding‏
‎“to support,” “to fortify”). The Lord did not hasten through‏ ,סעד ‎(related to‏ ,5
‎the desert; He caused Israel to stride through it in slow, deliberate measure,‏
‎and with each step that Israel took, He let His people sense that He was near.‏
‎mK, even though it usually does not rain‏ שמים נטפו -ארץ וגל ‎V.9.‏
‎all the earth trembled at this extraordinary manifesta-‏ ,זה °2'0 ‎in the desert.‏

‎Vv tion of God’s presence on earth, but Sinai in particular was shaken. Sinai
was the mountain upon which God lowered Himself as ‏אלקי ישראל‎ as the
God of that people which henceforth, in all of its future acts and historical

‎as the messenger‏ ,ישראל ‎development, was to stand amidst the nations as‏ ש
‎of the “all-surpassing rule of God." When God came down to earth, all of‏
‎nature trembled, but Israel, the nation of men, sensed only His fatherly‏
‎concern and His loving neamess.‏

‎Vv V. 10, ‏ונ"‎ bus. Tt is dovbthl whether bm. is meant to imply
actual “rain” here. ‏נדבה‎ is a voluntary donation, and the plural form,
m3}, is employed in Psalm 110:3 as an abstract concept, denoting devotion

‎Vv given of one’s own free will, ‏גדבות‎ pa, therefore, would indicate a “torrent
of rain" deriving not from the natural order of things, but coming to Israel
95 an extraordinary gesture of God’s bounty. However, since the word

‏,נדבה ‎is used explicitly with reference to a donation of the nature of a‏ הניף שי
‎should be‏ בשם ‎(Exod. 35:22), it would seem that‏ הניף תנופת ‎am‏ לה' ‎as in‏
‎understood here in an allegorical sense; that is, “God lavished upon Israet‏
‎a torrent of bounty, an abundance of generous gifts, when He caused them‏

‎to gather about Mount Sinai in order to receive the Law.” For 1910615 mind‏ ש
‎and spirit had been broken by the brunt of the sufferings and slavery they‏

‎—_ had endared, and hence they “first” had to be given spiritual restoration and.
invigoration if they were to be able to rise up to receive and understand

‎God's Law, ‘Thus we are told in the second half of Verse 10, “Thou first

‎| ‘preparest’ "a1 hind the nation which is to become Thy inheritance, and