NEE EEE ‏שרדו‎ 0
seas and also the surging mult PE: TPN UGE | STS
tude of the peoples; copa Tem oes
that there is only One God, One “right,” and One sacred focal point for all
the world of men irrespective of differences in climate, location and charac-
teristics of soil. In other words, regardless of such differences, all of man-
Kind forms one single whole in accordance with its moral destiny and the

25, salvation that can be attained if this destiny is fulfilled. The “right which
men must make a living reality on earth is one and the same for all, even
‘as the One God is the sole true God for them all.

V.7. ‏וג‎ pap, ma is creative power, ‏גבורה‎ is the might that can

win victory, Therefore ‏,גבורה‎ when used with reference to God, is employed

‎solely with regard to His rule in the history of mankind, and refers to‏ ש
‎instances in which He must quell the mutiny of those who would resist His‏

‎will, In the province of nature, however, all creatures obey the Lord’s

‎will of their own accord, and thus it is the na, the creative power of God,‏ ש
‎rather than His “victorious might” that is manifested there. It is only in‏

‎Job 26:14 that we read, after a description of the Divine strength and

‎wisdom manifested in the phenomena of nature: ‏הן אלה קצות דרביו זגו'‎

‎Vv ‏.ורעם גבורותיו מי יתבונך‎ But it may well be that, In that instance, reference is
made to the greatness of His rule among men, of which no previous mention

‎had been made, and of which ‏ורעם גבורותיו וגו'‎ would indicate that this

‎phase of God's sovereignty, in its moving grandeur which is often beyond‏ ש
‎the comprehension of man’s limited insight, far surpasses even that aspect‏

‎of God's rule which is manifest in the realm of nature, ‏הכיך‎ is “to set fast”

‎and also “to prepare for a purpose.” In this verse it may be given either

‎Vv meaning, since God's creative power is manifested not only in the firm
foundations of the mountains but also in the eternal “preparedness” of the

‎mountains to fructify the earth. Cf. Psalm 104:10, 13. Here, with reference

‎mentioned in Verse 6 concerning the requirements God makes‏ נוראות ‎to the‏ ש
‎of men: “He, Who manifests His creative power in the establishment and‏

‎0 preparation of natural forces to do His will, is also girded with a might which
will prevail victoriously over aay opposing human force. Disobedient men

‎--- have cause to fear Him because He will take up the fight against them.”

‎| V. 8. ‏.משביה גגל‎ In Verse 7, David praised God's omnipotent
acre aed ‏ולחוהן‎ apeane the ernie fe 27 rn eens