‎OS ON‏ וק הו רמוה
‎is preponderantly the freeing of an object from a power which has en-‏
‎compassed it with some degree of justification, so that the one who liberates‏
‎the object may justly have some claims upon it. The compulsory redemption‏ -
‎of sanctuarics, Israel's liberation from Egypt, as well as deliverance from‏
‎death and physical suffering to which man falls heir in the ordinary course‏
‎of natural events would all be included in this definition. The thought in‏
‎would thus be, “Thou hast freed me from‏ בידך וגו" פדיתה וגו ‎our verse‏
‎the power of all those forces which generally control all other living things‏ ש
‎on earth, by letting me partake in the history and destiny of the community‏
‎of Israel, by Thy teachings and by every boon Thou hast sent to me in‏
‎particular, Thus Thou hast redeemed me so that I might become Thy‏ שי
‎Wao” (see Commentary to Exod. 19:5). “I belong solely to Thee and‏
‎shall remain Thine forever. Therefore I commit into Thy hand all of my‏
‎being, together with everything that conditions and motivates my physical‏
‎bx; Thou wilt‏ אמה ‎and spiritual life. 1 know that Thou wilt prove to be‏ ש
‎fulfil the promise that Thou gavest us when Thou didst call for our com-‏
‎plete devotion. Thou wilt prove that Thou alone art the true and genuine‏
‎God 2¢ opposed to all the powers that are erroneously worshipped, trusted‏ שי
‎can refer either to God's fulfillment of His‏ אל אמת ‎and feared by men.”‏
‎promise or to God's true supremacy over all other forces. The thought‏

‎expressed in Verse 7 would support the latter interpretation.

‎4 V. 7. ‏.שנאתי וג‎ Even as ‏,אהבתי‎ as employed in ‏אהבתי את אדני‎
(Exod. 21:8), ‏אהבתי כי ישמע ה'‎ (Psalm 116:1), ‏מה אהבתי תורתך‎ (Psalm
119:97( and elsewhere does not mean, “I have loved,” but “I have come
Vv to love” or “I love,” so x3w, in the past tense as it is used here, does not
simply mean “I have hated,” but “I have come to hate” or "1 hate.”
_ ‘Thus we also read ‏נפשו‎ may ‏אהב חמס‎ (Psalm 11:5), ‏שנאתי כל אורח שקר‎
= (Peale 119:128( and elsewhere. ‏הבלים‎ are things that are vanities and
thus deceive and prove to be xiv to those who trustingly worship them
| because they regard them as genuine and mighty. ‏אל ה'‎ nua, as distinguished