1) Forward strides that man we 1
who has never walked in the coun- ” wes ‏חיש‎ eS aes
“~ PSALM I
V1. ‘wR. On one hand, the phonetic relationship of the root ‏אשר‎
‏,עזר ,אזר ,אסר ,עשר סל‎ oxy, ‏אצר‎ would indicate 8 gathering, an accumulation
of power and material goods. On the other hand, there is the meaning of
‏,אשור‎ “a step,” “WR, to step forward, to “progress” (Prov. 4:14; 23:19), as
for example ‏,אשרה‎ 8 tree blossoming forth under the protection of a deity.
‘This would indicate as the true meaning for ‏אשר‎ not the possession of facul-
tics and material goods already attained, but, instead, the progress toward the
eventual attainment of such material and spiritual wealth, It is “striding for-
2S, ward." Even the relative pronoun wx, which is used to introduce the
predicate to a subject or an object, expresses a step forward in thought,
the vesting of an idea with an additional predicate, its enrichment with a
new characteristic, Thus ‏אשרי‎ denotes all possible progress, progress in every
respect, “Striding forward,” advancement in all that which is desirable, is the
‏ש‎ basic motive and the goal of all the thoughts and acts of men. The ‏,רשע‎ in
order to reach this goal, emancipates himself from the law, the frivolous man
abandons his sense of duty and the y>, the sophist, scorns everything that seems
‏שי‎ to him a stumbling block in the path to the attainment of his heart's desire. All
these three pride themselves as being progressive and regard as old-fashioned
and inferior those who have scruples against thelr views and ways. As opposed.
to them the psalm says: ‏,אשרי האיש‎ “that progress for which all of them strive
‏ש‎ is actually only with that man who does not follow their principles, but,
instead, derives all his principles, his endeavors and his views solely from
the Law of the Lord.”
‏ש‎ ‘Our sages have already pointed out how, by means of this word "ant,
‏תהלים‎ begins immediately where the ‏תורה‎ left off. The farewell blessing of
Moses, ‏הברכה‎ nan, ended with the words ‏.אשריך ישראל מי כמוך‎ David begins
where Moses left off, with ‏אשרי האיש‎ (Yalkut ibid.) David here brings
Vv to the attention of every individual that which Moses had stated with regard
to the nation as a whole. David speaks of three characters that are opposed
to the Torah; namely: ‏,רשע‎ Rent and ‏ל‎
‏שי‎ ‘The word ‏,רשע‎ phonetically related to ‏רשה‎ (from which the Rabbinic
nw? is derived}, “the untrammeled will,” “the arbitrary power,” and ‏רשות‎
‎(Aboth 1 and JI), “the government that makes laws,” denotes the “scomer
a of the law,” the “lawless” one who deliberately withholds bis obedience from
the Law and lets himself be guided solely by his own will.
| The word kon, from which we derive wun’ ‏,קלע באבן אל השערה ולא‎