Thee; to put an end at last to ‏וּמַתְנְקֶס:‎
‏אש‎ foe and avenger.
because of those who consider Thee an impediment for their ambitions and
in their views on life. These men would banish Thee from the thoughts of
mortals, They would leave no room for God’s guiding presence in actual,
everyday living, but would confine the worship of Thee to certain places,
times and occasions, to temples, churches, synagogues, festivals and special
ceremonies of life.”
"wi ‏להשבית‎ (see Comm. to Gea. 2:3); “in order to put an end, at last,
3S, to the doings of the ‏ומתנקם‎ ax.” The proclamation of God’s Name, or the
rofusal to proclaim it, is not merely a matter of rendering to God His due, or
of refusing to do 50. This is much more 2 matter of the entire social weal
‘or woe of mankind which is conditioned primarily by the living, active in-
fluence of the Divine idea on the attitude and relationship of men toward one
Vv another. The Name of God stands in the way of the ‏,צוררי ה'‎ of those who
wish to banish the concept of the Divine from the mental horizon of men, or
at least to limit it, because the presence of God will tolerate neither ‏אויב‎ nor
‏ש‎ Dpans, neither misanthropy nor vengeance. If man and society were left to
theic own devices, without the concept of God as the Creator and Lawgiver,
each individual would recognize only his own right to existence, because
each person would then see only bis own claim to happiness. Thus, of neces-
Vv sity—and therefore with some justification—he would see himself forced to
take up the struggle for such existence. Self-preservation and the pursuit of
his own happiness would thus become the supreme goal of every individual,
‏ש‎ while all others would become merely felfow-competitors who would interest
him only insofar as they would make some contribution to his own existence
and welfare, or insofar as he hopes to use them for his own ends by stratagem
or by force. He would sacrifice the wellbeing of anyone else if it should
‏ש‎ obstruct his own path to success. And, if another shall actually have had an
adverse effect upon his existence and welfare, then the ingenious or violent
destruction of that stumbling-block would become a great act of vengeance,
‏ש‎ worthy of praise.
‏ומתנקם‎ aMx, enmity and vengeance, the struggle of everyone against
—_ everyone elsc—that is the basic principle, stripped of all platitudes, to which
every society must succumb if it should succeed in striking the Name of God
from its ideology. This would be one loss for which human ingenuity could
| find no substitute. That which is not cemented by duty, by a sense of duty
‏תו‎ be thea ‏לה ]םותי‎ Gadbutie held: 0) fe