------- EO

Law, but also, in return, to devote this life 50 received to making His Law

a living reality in our lives. Expressed in terms of the symbols reposing in

the House of God, we reccive ‏שולהן‎ and ‏מנורה‎ from the ‏,ארון‎ and, in return,

we place ‏שולחן‎ and ‏מגורה‎ at the disposal of the ‏.אדון‎ This is the cycle of

‎Jewish life as taught us by our Sanctuary. “Since Thy Sanctuary has taught‏ ש

‎me this,” says David, “my sole desire is ‘to bless Thee through my life,”

‎that is, to advance the fulfillment of Thy will upon earth.” (This is the

‎which man addresses to God, See Commentary to Deut. 8:10).‏ ברכ שי

‎is the palm of the hand that is bent, and about to close‏ 49 .בשמך אשא כפד

‎in order to grasp an object. A hand in this position, but empty, raised to

‎God, symbolizes a plea to Him to supply us with what we lack. ‏בשמך‎

‏בשמך ‎most likely is intended to express the same thought as does‏ אשא כפר ש

‎Cin Psalm 44:6), “Only in Thy Name, on the basis of that which‏ נבום קמינר

‎‘Thou hast promised us, and on the basis of my determination to dedicate

‎whatever I may receive from Thee solely to the fulfilment of Thy will, do‏ שי

‎1 dare ask Thee to supply me with what I Jack,”

‎‘V. 6. ‏.כמר וגל‎ “Here in the barren wifdemess, when I lift my soul

‎to Thee and become aware of Thy neamess, I cease to be in the desert.‏ שי

‎I no longer feel hunger or thirst, I become satisfied in rich abundance as

‎in days gone by, and, as ever, (Verse 4), ‏,שפתי ישבחונך‎ so now, too, ‏שפתי‎

‎nun, my mouth proclaims the fame of God's acts with the joyous‏ יהלל פי

‎Vv sound of my lips.” (The literal meaning of ‏הלל‎ is the “fame of God's

‎acts”). “To me,” David continues, “the strength and joyous exaltation which

‎--- 1 am granted even in this isolated state, is another act of God, an ‘emanation
of God’ ‏(הלל)‎ which I proctaim in words of song.”

‎| V. 7, 8 "sax. ‏זכר‎ denotes the remembrance of a thing or person

‎that is part of the past. ‏הגה‎ is the vigorome meditatinn naan 2 thing ar