ee eee
This concept of ‏לאם‎ is related to that of nna, any and ‏טרף‎ are the names
that are by no means free of sad connotations which have been given to all
the struggle for survival and nourishment which is part of this elementary
- stage of human development. These designations convey the thought that
the individual’s survival must be wrested from a hostile nature ‏(טרף)‎ and
society (tn). The symbol of any national power, of course, is the sword
which is tured not only toward the enemy on the outside, but tumed in-
ward upon its own people as well. In the language of our sages, ‏אלומלא‎
‏בלער ש‎ MT ‏,מוראה איש את רעהו‎ “without this sword of the state each man would
be at war against the other." However, the experience of centuries of his-
tory has taught that these self-made national entities reach their goal only
‏ש‎ to a very limited extent. That goal, of course, is, to give the citizens a
basis of peace and prosperity with some measure of permanence. Therefore,
when the day will come in which the worship of God and allegiance to Him
and to His Law will permeate all the societies of nations, then the ‏,לאמים‎
‏ש‎ the powers that had heretofore exercised authority and created order among
the citizens, will rejoice. They will retreat before God, back into the ranks
‘of the peoples. They will gladly cede the right of way to His band so that He,
‏ש‎ and the recognition and worship of Him, may act as the supreme force
governing the societies of nations, Those who had hitherto ted and guided
the state will still Jabor mightily to advance the welfare of their nation, but
they will do so under His leadership. onan ‏.ולאמים בארץ‎ The leaders on
‏ש‎ carth will in tum be led by God Himself. He will direct them as to the
manner in which order may be established among men in accordance with
His will. It is this order, to be derived from God Himself, that is expressed
‏שי‎ by ‏:מישר‎ men and their affairs will be “made straight.” It will be an ideal,
“balanced” state of affairs in which none shall strive to rise above the other,
--- and no man will attempt to trample his brother underfoot. Every man will
strive to discharge his task on earth ‏ישר‎ 7773, in a straight and righteous
manner. Individual differences may still be complex and manifold. But
| ‘on the basis of the worship of God, the moral Law, the duty and the destiny