nd es
‏החלים כ‎ 4
He called forth the earth from the “TTIW YIM AT An
rising of the sun unto the setting Tory wa
thereof. ‏מו‎
‎2( Out of Zion, the epitome of ‏כְללימי קל היב‎ 6
“~ beauty, God has already appeared. 7 7” ‏מ‎ Oe pn
3) Our God will come again : / ₪
and He will not keep silent; a fre ON KOEN") ‏ל יבא אחינ‎
devours before Him and it is ex- THUR TP INA MEP
ceedingly stormy round about ‏ה‎
‎Him, ‏י‎
‎5, 49 had a message for all of mankind. Psalm 50, “a song by Asaph,”
searches into the inner life of Isracl, and, in particular, deals with Israel's
attitude to the Divine Law which has been revealed to it.
Say ‏.אל‎ 5x is that strength which is present in all things that live and
breathe and grow, the strength of which everyone is aware within himself,
‏ש‎ ‘phx is the invisible Creator, Lord and Master of all the world, and the
Divine Name of ‏ה'‎ indicates the Lord’s particular championship of the cause
of Iarael and His employment of Israel as tho messenger of His will and the
heratd of His Sovereignty among men. It was ‏אל אלקי' ה ָה'‎ Who spoke when
4 He callod upon all the earth to hear His revelation. This waa not a show of
mighty acts from which we could only surmiss God's greatness and what
He requires of us, ‘This was a verbal revelation in which the will of God,
‏ש‎ particularly as regards the attitude to be taken by Israel, is laid clear and
obvious before us,
V. 2. ‘31 ‏.הופיע ,מציתן‎ The instances in Psalm 80:2 and 94:1
‏ש‎ where ‏הופי‎ occurs, indicate that it primarily refers to ‏ה‎ revelation of God
by means of mighty acts, ‘Therefore the thought of Verse 2 is as follows,
“After the Word was revealed from Sinai” (Verse 1), “the Lord has shown
His presence even from Zion which is ‏,מכלל יופי‎ the perfect incarnation of
‏ש‎ physical beauty appropriate to moral perfection, because it is the Abode
of the Word of His Law." The designation ‏מכלל יופי‎ would indicate that
yma refers to a revelation which brings blessings to Isracl and is a do-
‏שי‎ monstration of God's favor to the latter.
Vv. 3. ‏ניבא ונר‎ “Bot now the Lord will reveal Himself by means
_ of His word once again, this time in behalf of His Law, even as He has
appeared unto us once before to give ws this Law. Now, egain, He ia
heralded by ‏אוכלה‎ vx, and the area into which He enters feels His neamess
| and is seized with trembling.”