‎EE ee -/-]0-‏ .א
".שבתי וגו', לחזות וגו', ולבקר וגז', ‎suffering deprive me of it or disturb it, It is‏
‎cannot mean a physical dwelling in the actual House of the‏ שבתי בבית ה"
‎Lord. Even the priests were not constantly in the Temple. The phrase‏
‎Vv rather describes that conception of life and of the fulfillment of its duties‏
‎which can make of any place a Divine sanctuary in the spirit of the Biblical‏
‎For even the‏ .בי ה' אלקיך מתהלך בקרב מחנך והיה מחניך קדוש ‎injunction‏
‏ועשו לי מקדש ‎Vv actual building of the House of God 801815 its purpose‏
‎only if all our lives outside the Temple walls will be sanctified‏ ,ושבנתי ‎ANNA‏
‎by the understanding, purity and devotion taught within the Sanctuary, so‏
‎that the presence of God will be sought not only in the Temple but,‏
‎Vv instead, will be among us and with us wherever we go. See Commentary to‏
‎Exod, 25:8. This “dwelling in God's Sanctuary,” then, is what David states‏
‎not only the few hours which I can spend‏ כל ימי חיי" ‎here to be his goal.‏
‎physically in the halls of the Temple itself, but everywhere and at all times.‏ שי
שבתי ‎My goal is to spend all my days ‘in the House of the Lord’ and thus‏
,לתזות 31" ‎to remain calm even in the most critical moments of my life.”‏
‎nyu is that which is attractive, pleasant, satisfying or blissful. It is difficult‏
‎v to express the meaning properly by means of any one word. Thus the ways‏
‎(Prov. 3:16).‏ דרכי נועם ‎of life taught us by Divine wisdom are referred to as‏
‎oyu is the blissfully glorious way in which the Lord shapes human affairs‏ ה"
‎has its concrete‏ נועם ה' ‎on earth in accordance with His purposes. This‏ שי
‎embodiment in the a7, the Holy of Holics of the Temple. There the Ark‏
‎of the Law reposes, guarded by the Cherubim with wings outspread over‏ ---
‎the Ark to protect it. At the same time the wings of these supernatural‏
‎beings point upward as if to receive God's glory. It is this Ark that‏ --7
‎demonstrates to us that wherever God’s Law is observed with genuine, pure‏ |