7) Remember not the sins of ‏ו אל"‎ wer 7H} mined (7
of his relationships. ‏,הדריכני‎ “teach me how to walk,” or “let me see that
all my paths, all my striving should be toward Thy truth.” “Teach me to
Jead such a way of life, *yo ‏,בי אתה אלה‎ for Thou art my guide and ruler,

35, Thou art the Creator of my real, actual existence.” mp in the 00] form
7 indicates the most fervent striving toward God. ‏.אותך קויתי‎ mp in the
Piel, used with the accusative, denotes the deepest yearning for God and
the expectation that He come to us, the hope that He will be near us.
‏.כל היום‎ “The hope that Thou wilt be near me has inspired and led me in

‎all I have done, in every area of my life which fills my days.”‏ שי
‎son Lf we were addressing another human being‏ רחמוך ‎SM‏ .6 יר
‎in this manner, we would say, “forget whatever you may already have done‏
‎for me in the past, and help me now as if you had never done anything‏ ש
‎for me before.” When we address our plea to God, however, our prayer‏
‎would be, “Remember that Thy fatherly compassion and Thy mercies toward‏
בי ‎me first began when I could not yet even become conscious of them,‏
‎olga, remember how much Thou hast already done for me in the‏ המה ‎Vv‏
‎and of‏ רחמים ‎past, Indeed, all that 1 am today is solely the work of Thy‏
‎Thy oven. Therefore, secing that I am Thy creature, do not let me perish‏
‎now.” So, too, the tendemess of a mother toward her child (the literal‏
‎meaning of mn), grows as the child's care and nursing require an ever-‏
‎increasing amount of her own devoted and sacrificing concer. The greater‏
‎the hardships and deprivations she will have undergone for the sake of her‏
‎Vv offspring, the more the fact that it is still alive and growing is the result‏
‎of her loving care, the more she will cherish her child. The more she has‏
‎alteady done for it in the past, the more she will do for it now and in the‏
‎future. This is the attitude that also fills the heart of any pure-minded human‏ שי
‎being in his loving efforts in behalf of his fetlow-men. It is merely a re~‏
‎flection of )206% own compassion and love which thus reveals the inexhaust-‏ =
‎It is to this love Divine to which‏ .רב ‎ible fount of its mercies, its ton‏

‎ee David now appeals.

‎| Vv. 7. ‘1 ‏.חטאות‎ The thought ‏כי מעולם המה‎ recalls to David's
‘memory the dave of hie childhand and 7 7 770 07 ‏ה"‎ cto 2. ath 70-52 ee