‘Was lost even betore,
had to suffer so much, No great empire hus ever stepped across the thresh-
- old of time without scornfully and impudently making the “people of the
law of God” feel weak and impotent. Standing at the grave of such a boastful
power, Israel could see in the former's downfall a measure of atonement for
what it had to suffer at its hands, and could indeed say ‏,בי עשית משפטי ודיני‎
that God has thus furthered the position to which Israel will be entitled in
‏ש‎ the world order of the future, while at the same time providing some atone-
ment for the ills His people had to experience, Therefore ‏,יסכת לכסא שופט צדק‎
“He has appolated Himself as a righteous judge for His judgment seat of the
‏שי‎ future.” Wherever there is an allusion to “sitting upon a throne” or “sitting
down upon the throne”, the expression ‏ישב על כסא‎ is used. It is only in Psaim
132:11 and 12 that it is said of David's descendants ‏,מפרי בטנך אשית לכסא-לך‎
‏.גם בניהם עדי עד ישמו לכסא-לך‎ But this, too, is not intended to mean “and
Vv they shall sit on the throne of David forever”. Through the temporary fall
of the Jewish state, the rule of the House of David has sustained a lengthy
period of interruption. But the descendants of David shall always be ready to
Vv ascend his throne. David's dynasty shall never become extinct, and when the
throne will be restored at last, only a scion of David shall occupy it.
‏גוים וגו" ,6 שר‎ myx, “Thou hast threatened many nations by destroy-
‏ש‎ ing one lawless power and blotting out its name for the future which is still
veiled but which nevertheless is sure to come. The downfall of a menacing, |
lawless power is always a warning to all the nations who, similarly, refused to
render unreserved homage to the moral Jaw. Such a historical event shows |
Vv them a preview of their own destruction, the disappearance of their own
names at some future date that comes closer with every swing of the pendu-
₪ lum of history.” The future is still “hidden”. No man knows when it will
come. One thing, however, is sure; it will come, it is ‏,ועד‎ the destination to
which alt roads will lead. (See Commentary to Exod. 15:18).
| ‘V.7, ‏האדיב: .האויב וגו"‎ is vocative. and most likely does not refer to