nd oo
‏תחלים ימ‎ 140
soul; the testimony of the Lord ‏מַחִכִימַת‎ ma nip ‏גפש ערות‎
is faithful, making wise the ine ‏היפ דרת‎ oe
experienced, one
nN a
were not confronted with such free choice, then he would stand under the
iron rule of his sensual nature, as do all other creatures, He would then no
tonger be the free servant of his Creator or the voluntary executor of His
Law. Accordingly, we have, in the very beginning of the history of mankind
as described in the Book of Books {see Commentary to Genesis 3), the
basic teaching concerning the recognition of good and evil. Indeed, Heaven
and Earth demonstzate the existence of God to man in incontrovertible
clarity and no specific revelation of a Word of God would be necessary for
man to recognize the manner in which the ways of God are revealed in
5, nature, Yet, were it not for the “Word” revealed to him by God, man
0 would be left quite helpless and perplexed with respect to his own role in
this scheme of things. Without this Law, he would not know what his own
relationship is to heaven and to earth and to the Creator Who made him
as well as the rest of the universe. It is only the Law which can tell him
Vv how, as a human being in the midst of a world consecrated to the service
of God, he must serve Him, his Lord and Maker, with his own life,
‘The rest of creation, individually and collectively, lacks the ability to
‏ש‎ act in a manner contrary to the will of the Lord. Therefore, resolution, un-
wavering clarity, joy of living, the undeceived recognition of things as they
are, an unfettered fulfillment of individual destiny, and collective harmony,
automatically reign supreme with all creatures except man. Man must have
‏ש‎ the Word of God which explains to him the unity underlying his dual nature
and which reveals to him the Law that is to define his purpose in life.
But for this Law which shows him the way, man would succumb to dis-
‏ש‎ consolate doubt, constant vacillation, and empty, joyless existence, frustrated
hopes, and lost individuality. Without the Law, society would be in a per-
petual state of war.
The word of the Lord ‏ה' תמימה‎ nwn, however, gives man a Divine
v teaching which encompasses every aspect of his existence. This doctrine
implants in his heart and spicit the seeds of the knowledge of what is good
and true and the ability to perceive such qualities for the physical, mental,
Vv earthly and heavenly facets of his life. (The word ‏תורה‎ is derived from a,
which means “to implant within someone a seed which is in the process
of steady growth”). This Law of God, Who “leads mankind to its goal”
——— tells him in an all-encompassing manner, wen, the significance of his
entire physical and spiritual being, with its physicat dependence and moral
freedom of will in the kingdom of God, for the Tiivine Linarlam of the.