‎‘the Lord is King forever FQN 7 7 um (16‏ (10 אש
‎and ever, even the nations shall Fee Ge Tae 4 ou‏
‎perish from His earth. SAPP BY‏
‎by‏ תביט ‎and‏ אתה ‎‘ny, is separated from‏ וכעס ‎The object of this sentence,‏
‎thus receiving particular‏ ,*| אזלא לגרמיה ‎and the‏ <| מהפך לגרמית ‎means of the‏
‎stress as an interposed object. Things are not the way they seem to both‏
‎Say. Misery and care do not come‏ וכעס ‎the oppressors and their victims.‏
‎about without reason, nor are they the mechanical results of a collision be~‏

‎5 tween a mighty force and a weak object. No man suffers affliction without

‎- God being aware of it, Trouble can strike man only if the Lord, looking on
‏(תביט)‎ even from afar off has sent it to him with a “band” that either chastis~
¢s man or tests him, even as it cleanses him,

‎ary, which usually means “to leave", or “to forsake”,‏ .עליך יעזב חלבה
‎is used here to describe the entrusting of an abject to someone’s care, to leave‏ שי
‎(Gen.‏ ויעזב את כל אשר לו ביד ‎it to him without a worry, Thus we read nor‏
‎(Isaiah 10:3). Here,‏ ואנה תעזבו כבודכם ;)39:11 ‎(Fob‏ ותעזב אליו יגיעך ;)39:6
‎used without an explicit object, it means “to entrust everything to God with-‏
‎out a care”. The rest of the world may think that God cares naught for the‏ ש
‎those who subordinate themselves to His will‏ ,הלכה ‎welfare of mankind, but‏
‎in everything they do, will still entrust their fate to Him without misgivings.‏
‎mim, God has always proven to be a tower of strength, particularly to the‏ ובר שי
‎orphan, who has no one on earth to protect him,‏
‎break the arm of the lawless man, weaken bis might,‏ ,שבר וג | .15 יר
‎and then, even if the wicked man himself will still live, his evil, his lawlessness‏ ש
תדרש ‎which caused so much suffering, shall be found on earth no more.‏
‎(Jerem.‏ יבקש עון ישראל ואיננו ואת חטאת יהודה ולא תמצאינה ‎as in‏ רשעו ‎ba‏ תמצא
‎Perbaps the interpretation should be, "Seek out evil and punish‏ .)50:20
‎Vv it, and then Thou wilt find it no more’. “Reveal Thyself and crime will‏
‎immediately vanish from the earth, for evil exists only because men fail to‏
‎see Thee.”‏
.עולם ‎and‏ לעולם ועד ‎"A, There is a difference between‏ מלך וגו" .16 ‎Vv ‘V.‏
‎bears 2 connotation of the endless future and denotes that‏ לעולם ‎‘The word‏

‎—— which shall never end because it is eternal. ‏עולם.‎ represents the concept of
the entire course of time and signifies that which goes on constantly, without
interruption. The word ‏עולם‎ itself’ indicates all of time, past, present and

‎| future. It encompasses every occurrence in time that is rooted in olny, that