0]. ‏ה--.-‎ i ee -------- ne ee OO
or asset. Cf. the expression ‏לאל ידי‎ w (Comm. to Gen. 31:29) and also
‘en ‏גבורי‎ and ‏,גבורי חילים‎ Chron, 1 7:2,5, The word ‏חיל‎ itself is phonetically
telated to ‏,איל‎ from which ‏אל‎ is derived. ‘Thus ‏בני אלים‎ can be only vocative
or accusative. It may be a call to all those who are endowed with strength
2S, or who feel that they are so endowed, to ascribe to the Lord alone whatever
power may be within them or whatever forces they may behold and admire
in the world of nature. Or, more precisely stated, since they know that
even with all their strength and faculties they are still dependent upon
God, they may consider themselves ‏בני אלים‎ but certainly not ‏.אלים‎ They
Vv should therefore not regard any of the ‏בני אלים‎ around them as ‏,אלים‎ but
‏]הבו לה' כבוד ועד‎ The verse may also be read in the accusative form; ie.,
“Bring unto the Lord, attribute and ascribe to Him everything that you
‏ש‎ admire as being endowed with strength.”
‏.הבו לה' כבוד וע‎ Tax. Bring to the Lord, ascribe to Him every-
thing that reveals itself to you in greatness and in glory, and ny all that
appears to you indestructible and invincible and eternal. Ascribe it to
Vv Him, the sole Being Who is in truth great, glorious and eternal, and
‘Whose work and sovereignty is shown in everything thst seems to us lofty,
splendid and mighty, In this verse, as well as in the rest of the psalm, God
‏שי‎ is not called “pox but ‏.ה'‎ He is called by that name which signifies His
personal relationship to man (Comm. to Gen. 2:4), and with which name
He therefore also announced His particular revelation to Israel in both
‏ש‎ history and Taw (Exod, 6:4). We are called upon to realize that the same
God Who revealed Himself to us in all the grandeur and majesty of His
Presence both in the history of our fathers and in the Law of Sinai still
reveals His power to us today in all the workings of nature and in the course
Vv of history. It is in accordance with His will alone that the powers and
forces of nature continue to evolve within the framework of the laws given
---- them when they were created, and it is He Who leads and guides them
so that they may help further the goals that train both individual and
——— mankind alike,
| ‘V. 2. ‏,הבו לה' כבוד שמו‎ above all, give to Him that glory which