wine increase,
oN
justification and validity of prayerful mood to those of David's contemporar-
ies who mocked him as he serenely collected his thoughts for prayer even
"83, in such distress as he found himself, This seventh verse now is the
beginning of that ‏תפלה‎ which he was preparing to utter when he was interrupt-
ed by the sneers of his contemporaries.
‏,רבים אומרים‎ The vast throng says, “Oh that we could see some good!"*
‘They wish to experience some good; they know of only one kind of happiness;
5, namely that which is cangible in superficially happy circumstances. ‘They miss
0 that, and thus their prayer is actually a plea, the plea asking ‏עלינו אור‎ noi
‘a ‏.פניך‎ In accordance with its form, ‏נסה‎ would be the imperative of Dn, as
10? is of ‏ילך‎ and ‏,הלך‎ But such a root is not found elsewhere. Perhaps it can
be understood only as being synonymous with xv3, “to raise", similar to ‏ונפו‎
‏,את כלמתם שי‎ occurring in Ezek. 39:26 with ‏שי‎ in the form of ‏ל"ה‎ and in the
meaning of ‏ל"א‎ (‘They will bear their shame”). The 0 seems to have been
inserted here in order to add, simultaneously, the concept of 03, “a banner”,
to the thought of “to raise". ‏נם‎ is a standard, raised aloft, to which one
Vv looks up in order to keep upon the right path. Therefore those extraordinary
happenings that stand out above the everyday course of events and reveal
the direct intervention of God, are called ‏,נסית‎ outstanding acts of God which
Vv in the course of our lives make us aware of His presence and thus keep us on
the right path. Then ‏נסה 12°79 אור פניך ה'‎ means, “raise aloft the light of Thy
countenance as a distinctive sign above us”; 1. 6. “let the light of Thy coun-
‏ש‎ tenance be seen as such a symbol”. “Wx, light, in its enlightening, gladdening
and exalting power, in connection with ‏,פני ה'‎ with the “turning” of God's
countenance—the acts of God and their purpose—denotes all that is blissful,
gladdening and exalting in God's sovereignty—in short—Divine favor.
‏שי‎ ‘Thus it is also said of men: ‏באור פני מלך חיים‎ (Prov. 16:15(  ןוליפי ‏ור פני לא‎
“A kind, benevolent look from me they do not despise” (Job 29:24),
‏וגו" .8 .ער‎ Ann3, with stress upon the personal ending; “but Thou
Vv hast already put joy in my heart.” “I do not have to beg Thee for happiness
first,” says David. “Thou hast already put into my heart that joy which the
--- others seek outside and for which they would ask Thee. I am happy since I
feet near to Thee (Verse 1), far happier than they are ‏וגו"‎ nyz, at a time
when they behold their corn and their wine, the outward symbols of their
| good fortuae in all its bounty.”