and shall overtake those that hate ES
Thee.
10) Thou dost appoint them ‏לָעת‎ Big TWN tony 0
like a fiery oven for the times of pOsximy oyboy tees rim, spud
Thy wrath; then the Lord will let oe wwtoesr® ‏אש‎
‎them, too, perish in His anger and ‏אשי‎
‎the fire itself shall devour them.
‏ב‎
‎V.8. ‏יכ וגל‎ For David trusts in the Lord because of his kingship,
‘That is, his faith in God is part of the fulfillment of his royal vocation and
‏ש‎ the attainment of his royal destiny. In return, the mercy shown him by the
“Most High” Who towers high above all other powers and forces will not
Iet David waver.
V.9. ‘uv ‏.תמצא‎ ‘is the hand of God, which intervenes to chastise
Vv and to discipline. (Sce Commentary to Exodus 15:6). The hand of God
is sufficient to deal with anything that openly resists His goals. Thus we
have ‏ומצא להם‎ (Num. 11:22). ‏.ימינך‎ The positive salvation which is brought
‏שי‎ about by the Lord’s right hand (see Psalm 20:7) will overcome those whose
hearts turn in anger and hatred against that which is good and therefore is
a part of Divine happiness.
‏שי‎ V. 10. ‏,תשיתמו וגו"‎ In Gen, 15:17 the tine of Israel’s suffering in
Egypt is described as ‏עשן‎ ‘Nan. So, too, it is stated in Isaiah 31:9 that the
Lord has ‏אזר‎ and ‘13h in Jerusalem, in which the power of Assyria shalt
bur and through which anything destined by God for destruction shall '
‏ש‎ perish, In Malachi 3:19 the future is portrayed as a glowing oven in which |
the wicked shall be destroyed, ‏הבא בער כתגור וגו'‎ ova, In this psalm, we |
are told that God uses the wicked, the ‏אש 85 ,אויבי ושונאי ה'‎ TIN instruments |
‏ש‎ for inflicting scathing and yet cleansing pain upon the righteous at the time
of His wrath. (Cf. Psalm 17:4,14), Once the time of suffering has ended,
008 however, the Lord, as ‏ה'‎ will bring man a new and happier future. The
wicked, with their excesses, shall have helped in preparing the righteous
--- for that day by purifying and cleansing them through suffering. After God
| has dealt with the righteous, He will turn His wrath at last upon the wicked |