of water, which brings forth its fruit in its season and whose leaf does not wither; and whatever he does, he will carry through successfully. אֲשֶׁר פִּרְיוֹ יִתֵּן בְּעִתּוֹ וְעָלֵהוּ לֹא־יִבּוֹל וְכֹל אֲשֶׁר־יַעֲשֶׂה יַצְלִיחַ׃

Truth, saturates life within and without, in all its aspects, and makes it bear fruit.

According to all the foregoing thought, we must conceive the word תורה to remain one-sided, we ought to seek our תורה, our spiritual education, from more than one teacher. ועל שתול עץ על פלגי מים—עץ על פלגי מים היו מים מים עץ על פלגי נחלים זרמו to him עץ שתול his עולה ילדד. As opposed to the manifestation of the Jews of the exile as עולה שעשעים and רעננה יהוה משגת (Jerem. 17:13), the people of which the human being who gets nourishment for his thinking and striving from the source of the Torah will give "his fruit in its season." He does not seek his fulfillment in the thoughts and aspirations of an alien world that has not grown and matured under the purifying and ennobling influence of God's Torah. ועצת י-הוה היא תקום. "His leaf also does not wither." To the flower belongs the bloom, to the tree the leaf. The tree must have leaves and yet these leaves are as essential for the growth and thriving of the tree as the lungs are for the well-being of the animals. In the case of the mental tree all kinds of enthusiasm, the capacity for all kinds of action, for the admiration of the spirit and emotions which impels to action, an admiration brought about by the breath and the light of the Divine truths. And if אשר ולא אם היא יהוה תורת is his continual striving through study and thought, and the ושתיה and the חטאת, then ועל עלה אשר יעשה denotes a use of leisure time for intellectual and moral growth quite alien to the way of life of the רשעים and לצים. He will also not attain the צליח that is peculiar to them כי עשר אם עשרים (Abodah Zarah 19a): even the ordinary conversation of the wise is worthy of studious attention, since it is said, "his leaf also has merit."

בעתו אשר־יתן פריו is the concrete expression of the consequences of that which was previously shown by means of the allegory of the blossoming tree. Thus האיש is set in his fullest sense. Hence אשרי האיש is the main denotes a progress that overcomes all difficulties. Thus we also read יהי יצליח a crown a river" (Sam. II 19:18). ויצליח עבר עברה וצלחה והפריח. "He succeeds in all his endeavors, his undertakings." כל אשר יעשה הוא מצליח—that everything must be successful conclusion." He does not owe his success in his endeavors to chance and the mere coincidence of external circumstances. It is by understanding and thorough insight that every undertaking succeeds. He who seeks his guide me by God in His Torah, that he assures himself of success.
