     1→Thus David says: "At early dawn I pray to God, and I meditate
     2→upon that other 'dawn' in the history of mankind. I venture to speak of
     3→the thoughts, the subject matter and content of my prayers, that on account of
     4→which I pray, that is early dawn, calls to my soul the thought of that dawn
     5→of a new morning in the history of mankind. I picture that future era to
     6→myself in anticipation and I await it, in accordance with the words אקרת
     7→God, עזרת אקרתך (Ps. 50:21)." Or, "I picture it to myself in a manner
     8→befitting God, on the basis of all that we know of God, of His righteousness
     9→and of the righteousness that He מנה (Ps. 15:1). I picture to myself what I long
    10→as אל before my soul, and just like the dawn one foresees from the
    11→early day as "my morning" (see Ps. 5:1), I see in it as the midst of the night of
    12→our sin, lies and felony—for that dawning which is sure to come—yea, כידן
    13→אקרת מנה רע כי someone", then עזרת is "the watchman", עזרת is the כידן
    14→form, "to lay watch to" someone (See Comm. to Gen. 30:31), מעיר,
    15→"to look out to". The gloom of night has embroidered the history of
    16→man and human society. In his darkness, insolence, לנצ, prevails. ים,
    17→evil, seems to find protection (as "in cover" of darkness). ימ, folly, exploits
    18→the situation. (ונצר is derived from עז in the Kal form; i.e. to call a "show"
    19→of radiance without an actual source of light being present. Had it been used
    20→in the Nif'al form, נצר, it would have meant this light could itself be
    21→traced back to a shining source of light). כידן הזיר, men who do violence,
    22→who misuse their power (See Commentary to Gen. 32:18) seem to reap
    23→advantages and be happy. Such men seem to be enjoying the favor of God. They
    24→seek to attain their goals not by means of truth and uprightness, but by מעיר,
    25→deceit. And אוילי ימי, he who is the most skillful in the art of deceit, is the
    26→most successful. It seems, therefore, as if God had taken a seat among men, and
    27→the Lord Who rules the world is not a benign god who finds pleasure in
