     1→8) But as for me, Thou hast
     2→already put joy in my heart, more
     3→than when their grain and their
     4→wine increase.
     5→
     6→justification and validity of prayerful mood in those of David's contemporaries
     7→But where has it, in serenity collected his thoughts for prayer even
     8→וב, in such distress as he found himself. This seventh verse now is the
     9→beginning of the plea which he was preparing to utter when he was interrupt-
    10→ed and challenged by the רבל at the very outset.
    11→
    12→Many say: רונמ םיבר. The vast throng says, "Oh that we could see some good!"
    13→They make a difference seen good; they know of only one kind of happiness,
    14→material well-being. They say, "Oh that we could see some material goods!"
    15→that, and thus their prayer is actually a plea, the plea asking ונילע הסנ ינא
    16→ךינפ. In accordance with its form, רונ would be the imperative of רונ, to
    17→lift and raise a light, i. e. to let it shine brightly, to carry it, etc. However, it can
    18→be understood only as being synonymous with וסנ, "to raise", similar to השנ
    19→בסנמה 'וג, occurring in Ezek. 39:26 with ב in the form of ב'ו and in the
    20→verse before us with וב as here combined with תא it would appear to be
    21→inserted here in order to add, simultaneously, the concept of תא, "a banner",
    22→to the thought of "to raise". תא is a standard, raised aloft, to which one
    23→keeps one's attention fixed, on which one pins one's hopes. This would then
    24→mean: upon thee trust set above the heaven, course of events and reveal
    25→the direct intervention of God, the exalted and outstanding acts of God which
    26→in the course of our lives marks a turning of His presence and thus keep us on
    27→the right path. Then ךינפ רוא then means "raise aloft the light of Thy
    28→countenance in our behalf"; the light which illuminates, which can be ob-
    29→tained the seen as such a symbol", וב, light, in its enlightening, gladdening
    30→and exalting power, in conjunction with 'וב, with the "turning" of God's
    31→countenance to man, in opposition to the הסה, the withdrawal, the con-
    32→gladdening and exalting in God's sovereignty—in short—Divine favor.
    33→Then if it, also end of more םירופכ 'וב חפא םנב תונ (Exov. 16:15), םירופכ תא לע תונכ,
    34→set up aloft, to raise Thee that men behold it, Numbers 10:35 םנבש וב םהיבא.
    35→
    36→V. 8. ינבלב התת and וב, with stress upon the personal ending: "but Thou
    37→hast already put joy in my heart." "I do not have to beg Thee for happiness
    38→first; I already have it. Joy, the happiness worthy of man, which men should
    39→others seek outside and for which they would ask Thee. I am happy since I
    40→feel near to Thee (Verse 1), far happier than they are ותריד תא. at a time
    41→when they behold their corn and their wine, the outward symbols of their
    42→good fortune in all its bounty."
