(Isaiah 5:18), "cords for yoking" (Job 39:13) with which draught animals are harnessed to a cart or plow. The moral law taught by ה׳ משיח imposes limitations (מוסרות) and duties (עבת), and both of these are repugnant to the nations. They find that such limitations are detrimental to their interest, therefore the sum total of their ambition is נתקה, etc.

V. 4. [Hebrew]. God permits men to engage in lengthy experiments in the carrying out of their plans and in the testing of their understanding and strength, which they overestimate. Without intervening directly, apparently resting, He sits upon His Throne in Heaven, בשמים, in the Beyond, the dual upper and nether "Yonder" from which the earth receives those influences that condition its evolution. Sitting בשמים, God "mocks" the endeavors of מכלי; ירק is a milder form of ירק. ירק, actually "my Master," the common name for God as applied to Him by a human being who is dedicated to His service and works for his purposes. God, as בשמים ישב, holds in His hands the reins of all that exists and all that is yet to be on earth. As ירק, He has informed the nations, through Israel and its spokesman, David, that homage to the Divine moral law is the sole path to salvation, בשמים ישבת ירק. His world order is based upon the eventual victory of all that is moral in the human sphere. He can let men go their own ways, for the final sum total of their experiences will lead them to the realization that the path of immorality and wrongdoing is not the way to collective salvation. יפעל אירי לעל. His revelation, of which Israel and David are the bearers, mocks at all attempts to expunge it from the minds of men.

V. 5. [Hebrew] When the nations and their leaders will one day, by their own experience, come to realize the uselessness of their attempts to seek enduring salvation without paying homage to the moral law, in fact, by leading a life that is in direct contradiction to that law, then God will emerge from His silence. Then His wrathful word shall smite them and the awareness of His actual indignation will dismay them. בהל, related to בלע, is the overpowering of the emotions, "consternation." See Gen. 45:3. They suddenly became aware of the fact that there is a free, moral, personal Lord over the mechanical and physical world order of their dreams, a Ruler with Whose absolute will they had neglected to reckon. The angry reproach reads as
