1 and 2. The activity of the nations as רגש, as closed units, is shown here in the movement agitated by its leaders; the activity of the peoples, וירועע, is shown in רגע, in the speculation concerning feasible ideas for the inner and external lives of the nation; the activity of the rulers, מלכי־ארץ, in the consolidation of their positions of power at the helm of the peoples; and the activity of the רוזנים by על משיח יהוה, in communal deliberation and final determination of the principles and the purpose to be fought for—all these different aspects of the lives of the nations and their activities directed לכחד הניד לכחד. They aim, unconsciously or unconsciously, have one common goal, namely to battle their way forwards towards true human progress, and the only means that of dutiful obedience to the moral Law of God which came to their awareness through the historical fact of the existence of His people and of His Anointed, "to tear their bonds asunder." As a historical fact, it is revealed that for all these nations, so far as their leaders are concerned, that this law did God build His world order, and only through the observance of this law can nations attain enduring peace in their domestic and foreign relationships. Here it is a question of the very existence of nations. The considerations of personal interest, power, fame and wealth is the reason for the unhealthy internal and external relationships in the lives of the nations, and not because of the alleged Law of God. They strangle and completely leads to the true goal, all the leaders and societies of the nations are perversely engaged in a fight against this one principle of salvation. The goal of their endeavors is to win external and internal freedom from God for their troubles, whilst they seek the cure in that which actually only aggravates the lingering evil. The word יצא, that which is vain, is a descriptive formulation of this word רוזנים. It affords a contrast, the highest degree, with the cure for the internal ills of the nations. Here more than elsewhere can one feel in advance the uselessness of the effort to find a lasting and general remedy, and one consider himself with seeking and improvement that is merely temporary and one-sided.

מוסר לבנה חבלן חבל himself in his "final words," in which he declares his own significance and that of his house and of his house for the moral future of salvation of all of mankind. נתנה מוסרות, (Sam. II, 23:1.). להם, ה׳, from the root כסות, derived from נכסה; נתחכה, בסרטותיהם בסרים as in Judges 16:9. נתיצבו, derived from נכר, is a "limiting bond"; צדקה bounds that inhibit willed expressions of strength, thus also תבא; "discipline" and conduct that inhibit the enjoyment of life. ערות, "cords," "seams." As performance are harnessed (related to חרץ, הרצה), thus also "yoinage cords"
