     1→unbridled sensuality. נוח נתן נחה אנח יח. God shall not allow the wicked a
     2→permanent place—or even temporary sojourn, in this world. רע תחת יע.
     3→That evil which He does permit to continue without putting an end to it
     4→at once, He does not leave at rest long enough to allow it to settle in the
     5→world order. Boasters, however proud and tyrannical they may be, cannot
     6→stand up before the eyes of God. רצח חמס טבעת אהב עול יח. Let men hail and
     7→honor as their god such men (Ps. 49:19) who, in their brutality, are the
     8→arbiters, whatever his position in human society. רוע טיח רע מתר. The
     9→Lord is a God of righteousness and truth, hypocrisy and deceit will come to
    10→naught before Him (Ps. 40:5 and Comm.). הויה קטר עדת רע בלע יח. The
    11→droppest deceit. תא מוח אתבנן אהיה יחת יגד יעח מתו. Based on these motives,
    12→then, I picture the "morning" for myself, and confidently await that day
    13→when יהוה shall destroy כאב, צופה, רמיחה and רע, כזב and טמיח, shall have van-
    14→ished from the earth.
    15→
    16→הויה יצעך יצעך פרח. The emphasis is placed on the conjunction כי "the
    17→Lord detests the man of murder and deceit". He does not detest only the
    18→murderer, who is held in contempt by human society as well, but He also
    19→detests equally the dissembler and the hypocrite, who are respected by all.
    20→וכ טטיח יתטח וכטר יוטח (Prov.1:7). To scorn moral obligations is just as much
    21→folly as it is to scorn wisdom, and fools scorn both wisdom and moral
    22→obligations alike.
    23→
    24→V. 8. ינא אלי. "But as for me," says David, "I do not feel com-
    25→pelled to desist from evil merely because my knowledge of the purpose of
    26→God's government can only account for the physical phenomena of dark-
    27→ness. I know that wickedness cannot endure forever, even though in these
    28→dark days evil seems to triumph and I myself must suffer at the hands of
    29→the wicked. The Lord not only eradicates wickedness but He rewards him
    30→who is so adept at deceit that he still may well be called murderous. But,
    31→over and beyond this, I know that I must desist from wickedness simply
    32→because the Lord is a God of mercy and righteousness, and I am the re-
    33→cipient of a great gift given us by a gracious God. In the midst of this era
    34→of gloom, when moral darkness has turned away from God, He has erected
    35→for us a house which He calls His own. It is the Sanctuary that publicly
    36→teaches us how we are to fashion our lives on earth that His presence will
