8) Ask of Me, then I shall let the nations be earth be your inheritance, and the ends of the earth your possession.

9) But if you must break them with an iron rod; of iron, then you will smash them to pieces like potter's vessels. וְעַתָּה מְלָכִים הַשְׂכִּילוּ הִוָּסְרוּ שֹׁפְטֵי אָרֶץ׃ שְׁאַל מִמֶּנִּי וְאֶתְּנָה גוֹיִם נַחֲלָתֶךָ וַאֲחֻזָּתְךָ אַפְסֵי־אָרֶץ׃ תְּרֹעֵם בְּשֵׁבֶט בַּרְזֶל כִּכְלִי יוֹצֵר תְּנַפְּצֵם׃

events, your kingship is not merely a consequence of a combination of world circumstances, created and set up by Me, so that it can be attributed to Me indirectly. "Today I have begotten you"*. David's kingship is a new act of creation, created and revealed by Me today, as in all times and for all times. This advent was a new act of God for the proclamation of His will for the destiny of the nations.

V. 8. (שאל ממני (בני אתה, "Ask of Me"; hence, by virtue of the fact that the terms "inheritance" and "possession" as used here cannot be construed to mean the conquest and subjugation of the nations under the sovereignty of the Jewish throne, the fact that they cannot mean compelling them to obey Him and to His will, and joining oneself with purity are the demands made upon the rulers of the nations through the fact of the existence of the Kingdom that is descended from David, through this kingdom of David ready to conquer, the fact that the ideas and attitudes of nations will fall to the spirit and the doctrine of David and shall remain with it. Thus ירשנו, see Exod. 34:9.

V. 9. (תרועם באר. (כלכי הכליפו חררי ירועם לבע (Zech. 10:1.), means: Make the enlightenment and the moral improvement of the nations the object of your desires and the subject of your prayers. But the fact that this enlightenment and upward improvement of the nations is conceived of in terms of their obedience to God, to the will of God that they must accept, shall be demonstrated by his own deeds and his utterances the implementation of God's will in the moral shaping of the lives of individuals and nations. Thus, by means of his personal example in the implementation of God's will, he shall earnestly understand and take to their hearts the will of God.

V. 9. על תעבר cannot be a positive statement such as, "תרועם will," etc. Only can חרא יוצר אתה חרור be joined with it. "You will control them as his inheritance and his possession. אפסי etc. is rather a conditional protasis, and אפס etc. is a pehlofut: "If you will have to break them with a rod of iron." תרועם אתה, "then will you have to smash them." Even the subject and content of your prayers should be that the nations, through quiet
