6) For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, and the way of the lawless must perish. כִּי־יוֹדֵעַ יְהוָֹה דֶּרֶךְ צַדִּיקִים וְדֶרֶךְ רְשָׁעִים תֹּאבֵד׃

PSALM II

1) Why, then, are the nations in commotion and why do the peoples meditate in vain, לָמָּה רָגְשׁוּ גוֹיִם וּלְאֻמִּים יֶהְגּוּ־רִיק׃

V. 6. כי את, יודע ה׳ את. The verb "to take note of," denotes God's constant vigilance and His intervention on behalf of those whom He loves. Here it is not יודע דעה יהוה כל יודע את but יודע דרך. The path along which the righteous walk, their entire way of life, it is accordance with the Will of God. That is to say, all along this path, all of their steps will constitute a subject of special attention for His rule of loving kindness. This is why the רשעים can be sure of their progress toward salvation. Their entire way is opposed to His Will, and therefore He will hinder it. על יהוה דרך רשע, "the way of the lawless," on the other hand, needs no special Divine intervention in order to be thwarted. It automatically results in frustration. In every beginning because it lacks God's loving care. רשעים, "it loses itself" in a twisting and endless way and thus to goal. Therefore, in the last verse, the mention of the רשעים requires, for the sake of intensification, the special mention of the רשעים. After all, the ways of both are identical. The הצדיק walk the same path in thoughtless frivolity as the רשעים do consciously and deliberately, and they are equally exposed to the fate of the רשעים. Therefore רשע and תורה do not connote obedience and disobedience to God's revealed מצות לה׳.

The entire chapter is a lesson concerning ניגון מלך [i. e., the question: To whom shall the future belong, and who shall truly stride forward to all the goals of mankind.

PSALM II

Verses 1 and 2. רגשו, למה. This chapter and the one preceding it belong together—in fact, according to Berachoth 9b, they form one single psalm. As the first brought before us the question of human beings, or better of mankind, and of the life of the individual, so now the future of nations and of mankind are drawn from the statements in the preceding chapter concerning the life of the individual. It was declared (in Psalm I) that there is a teaching of God that leads only to true human progress, and accordingly temporal and moral endeavor can be sure of God's help. All contrary paths, however, to which disobedience and levity walk, shall forfeit their goal.

That which is true of the life of the individual is applying equally to the lives of peoples and nations. One end one law are applicable to both.
