    1→raising his eyes heavenward. They feel that prayer itself is a form of self-deception, of weakness, an empty, idle and unworthy of man. He therefore first addresses himself to men such as they and upholds them because of their thoughts against faith and trust in God.
    2→
    3→It is בני vs. and not בני vs, human beings in general, but בני איש, "every one of you is the son of a 'man'," says David. "You are all sons of your breeding, the offspring of generations of refinement, learning, and culture, yet without understanding that you have shown." Or perhaps it is just because they belong to the so-called heights, upper social strata that they regard prayer to God as an empty thing since they, in their sophistication, have progressed beyond their own sophisticated level of intellectual development. "עד מה יב. How much longer shall you mock at reflection shares that which actually redeems man's honor (כבודי)? This becomes לכלמה through תאהבו הבל. תבקשו כזב is כזב expressed in my prayer. תאהבו הבל, the t puts emphasis on the pronoun; "it is you, and not I, who love vanity, and things without content or value. תבקשו כזב is the negative rendering of יאשמעו. You despise as hollow thoughts and ideals are worthless and all our hopes are barren if they do not bring us closer to God. If we do not strive toward the presence of God, the fulfillment of the will of God, they are then only הבל ריק, which leads to evil. No, it is not my ways; it is your ways that are בני איש."
    4→
    5→"ודעו כי vs. "It is an obvious fact to which you should not close your eyes. God is not only a guide to all, to mankind as a whole, but יפליא חסידו לו distinguished from another." Thus והבדלתי ביני ובין עמי (Exod. 9:4), ונפלינו אני (Exod. 33:16).
    6→
    7→From the example, therefore, דעו vs. he who dedicates himself to God without reservations, who consecrates all his endeavors to God and entrusts his fate entirely to Him. God has always chosen for special guidance and favors. יהוה ישמע בקראי אליו בני איש. "The fact that I have been heard, the fact of such a person has always proves that devotion to God and trust in Him are on title whoreson and "therefore I know that God hears my cry, too, when I call upon Him." David who so
    8→
