    1→V. 2. בקראי ענני אלהי צדקי. Here David does not demand an immediate answer. He merely asks that he might come to truly realize the fact that God is close to everyone that calls upon Him, that He will hear his cry. This awareness must arise from his distress itself (2), his spirit has found release, he already set him free in the past. יצר, even in such distress as that to which he may find himself. Distress no longer frightens him, nor does it oppress him and weigh him down. If he now calls upon יהוה, his spirit has found release, he has already overcome the distress within himself through the knowledge that God is near him and hears his cry.
    2→
    3→V. 3. בני איש עד מה. Filled with this newly-won peace of mind, he now rises to חננני, יראה and אשמע, there is not simply a plea directed to God. These three phrases present a course of thoughts for his meditation, a power of reasoning, the proper discernment of what is a good and true, to gain from God the proper perspective and the correct attitude (see Commentary on בני איש). The key point is not the distress (then it would be בעת צרה זעק כאשר), or even יראה, then its purpose is not simply to bring a request of ours before the Lord, but to fill our hearts with the knowledge that God is always ready to attend, יחוננו, and to grant בני איש, "may He give us" that whatever good He may send us solely to the fulfillment of His will on earth. This pledge is voiced anew with every new תפלה that is addressed to God.
    4→
    5→עד מה כבודי. David asks, How long will you indulge in such emptiness of mind, since he had become aware of God's nearness in the midst of his distress, obviously begins only in Verses 7—9.
    6→
    7→V. 3. בני איש. Although he has thus addressed himself, his words are a form of address directed to human beings. He sets them about him—not ordinary, average men—emits at his ideas. They smile, they even ridicule him for turning to God in such distress instead of seeking help from men. "They sneer at the thought that he might find comfort and cease of soul by
    8→
