PSALM I

V. 1. אַשְׁרֵי. On one hand, the phonetic relationship of the root אשר to שאר, צרר, עזר, אזר, אסר, עשר would indicate a gathering, an accumulation of power and material goods. On the other hand, there is the meaning of אשור, "a step," אשר, to step forward, to "progress" (Prov. 4:14; 23:19), as for example אשרה, a tree blossoming forth under the protection of a deity. This would indicate as the true meaning for אשר not the possession of faculties and material goods already attained, but, instead, the progress toward the eventual attainment of such material and spiritual wealth. It is "striding forward." Even the relative pronoun אשר, which is used to introduce the predicate to a subject or an object, expresses a step forward in thought, the vesting of an idea with an additional predicate, its enrichment with a new characteristic. Thus אשרי denotes all possible progress, progress in every respect. "Striding forward," advancement in all that which is desirable, is the basic motive and the goal of all the thoughts and acts of men. The רשע, in order to reach this goal, emancipates himself from the law, the frivolous man abandons his sense of duty and the לץ, the sophist, scorns everything that seems to him a stumbling block in the path to the attainment of his heart's desire. All these three pride themselves as being progressive and regard as old-fashioned and inferior those who have scruples against their views and ways. As opposed to them the psalm says: אשרי האיש, "that progress for which all of them strive is actually only with that man who does not follow their principles, but, instead, derives all his principles, his endeavors and his views solely from the Law of the Lord."

Our sages have already pointed out how, by means of this word אשרי, תהלים begins immediately where the תורה left off. The farewell blessing of Moses, הברכה, ended with the words אשריך ישראל מי כמוך. David here brings to the attention of every individual that which Moses had stated with regard to the nation as a whole. David speaks of three characters that are opposed to the Torah; namely: רשע, חטא and לץ.

The word רשע, phonetically related to רצה (from which the Rabbinic רצון is derived), "the untrammeled will," "the arbitrary power," and רשות (Aboth I and II), "the government that makes laws," denotes the "scorner of the law," the "lawless" one who deliberately withholds his obedience from the Law and lets himself be guided solely by his own will.

The word חטא, from which we derive חטאת, קלע באבן אל השערה ולא
