     1→PSALM III
     2→
     3→This second part of the psalm ends with כל חוסי בו, just as the
     4→first one had begun, and by the word בו, comprises the individual and the
     5→general, the temporal and the eternal. The God-fearing are called חוסי בו,
     6→they put all their trust in God and not in the endeavors in which they cannot
     7→evade defeat. For the approval of God and thus cannot rely on His help. חוסה,
     8→"those who seek refuge in Him," is a much more intense, much more
     9→expectant looking up to something, i.e., "trust."
    10→
    11→PSALM III
    12→
    13→V. 1. מזמור לדוד. It is surely not without some profound reason
    14→that this psalm was placed immediately after the one preceding, in which
    15→David appears as the full preacher of his calling to win over mankind to the
    16→homage of the Divine moral Law. This third psalm stands in the sharpest
    17→contrast to the preceding Psalm. Here David is not concerned with up-grading
    18→or degrading sin against this same moral law. This sin had to be expiated by
    19→means of the greatest tragedy both in David's role as a king and in his family
    20→life what seems at first glance to annihilate the entire moral order of the world. It
    21→is far from the cult of the idealization of our great men, from endowing them
    22→with supernatural perfection. Under the glaring light of this truth the weak-
    23→nesses of character, the acts of weakness, yes, and even the sins of the men
    24→of the Bible are revealed. The Bible is not satisfied with a mere rhetorical
    25→proclamation in support of allegiance to the moral law. This truth does not
    26→whitewash the great men, and it shows us how God, in His incorruptible jus-
    27→tice, does not permit any sin, even such as may be committed by the greatest
    28→luminaries on earth. Ordinary, weak mortals are taught by their example not to
    29→perish in their aberrations, but instead, to find their way, out of the depths
    30→of that despair into which they had so grievously fallen, back again: how—
    31→strayed from the moral law, is to be led back to unswerved allegiance to that
    32→law. It can reach this stage only by achieving victory over itself through
    33→confession and remorse. The fact that David is cited in Psalms as an ex-
    34→ample points upon the way towards that goal. The tone of his lyre, exalting man
    35→even in all shows down the way, sounds forth here from this psalm in the
    36→midst of the deepest affliction and distress. David himself, who here in the
    37→preceding psalm addressed mankind, exhorting it to follow God as its Divine
    38→King, has broken the moral law and destroyed the domestic felicity of one
    39→of his subjects. Now he must atone for his sin, he is compelled to flee from his
    40→own son. The rebellious Absalom has taken hold of the reins of government,
    41→and the reproach and judgment of his people deliver him up to hopeless
