     1→despair. Yes: in the simple fact that he has laid down, slept, and awakened
     2→once more, lie finds the assurance that God has not forsaken him after all.
     3→Thus he joyously brings comfort and new courage to the hearts of all those
     4→bowed down by guilt and misery, by calling out to them: "By the very act of
     5→sleep and awakening, God demonstrates to you that He has not cast you off; to
     6→you regain the lost purity and serenity of your life."
     7→(Selah) — !
     8→
     9→V. 6. אלפי עם ,not in the sense of "ten thousands, thousands of men,"
    10→but "myriads," "an army," as Mezudath David puts it; אלפי, אלופי, מאה, עשרות
    11→and ערב, "troops," as well as for the relationship of עם to ועד, see Gen. 43:11.
    12→The following rule has been stated in Pesachim 107a: חשיבי רעב ,דרועב
    13→איסורי עמי איקרי, "whoever, in the title of a psalm, the name of David
    14→occurs before the phrase "A Song," exaltation came first and the song was
    15→composed thereafter; but if the title says: 'A Song of David,' the inspiration to
    16→sing came first and then David sought occasion for its composition." Only here, however,
    17→there David raised himself to exaltation only upon the wings of his song.
    18→This general rule is borne out throughout the Psalms. Psalm 3, too, is the
    19→song born of deep distress; actually, the song is an act of exaltation over the
    20→depression, which it lifted (Verses 4, 5) only in the course of the song,
    21→until finally the fact brought to mind in Verse 6, and then Verse 7, exalts
    22→the singer to the full consciousness of his renewed trust. See on Psalm 53.
    23→V. 7. על בני ,ענב is derived from ענב, also ענג, "to confine," "to
    24→limit." This probably refers to the heads of the rebellion that had broken out
    25→against David (II Sam. 15:12), an organized revolt whose leaders systematically
    26→put an end to that sovereignty by "limiting," or "oppressing" it. ער צעם.
    27→however, most likely denotes the people whom they have goaded on to
    28→rebellion.
    29→V. 3. על רבים ,וירים, and not merely ל, "they say of my entire
    30→personality, of my character, of my soul; i.e., of my whole physical, mental
    31→and spiritual being: there is no help for him," i.e., "there is nothing about him to which
    32→attention should be given to the changes in the designations of God as they
    33→appear. David turned to God as ה, i.e., to that mercy which is ready at all
    34→times to give new life. The answer, however, sees him only before God as ה,
    35→administers justice, before Him Whose judgment is passed not at his
