has never sat where the scornful sit.

V. 2. But his delight is in the teaching of the Lord and who meditates in His Law day and night. לֹא יָשָׁב׃ לֵצִים וּבְמוֹשַׁב כִּי אִם בְּתוֹרַת יְהוָֹה חֶפְצוֹ וּבְתוֹרָתוֹ יֶהְגֶּה יוֹמָם וָלָיְלָה׃

Thus אשרי האיש is he counted of the lawless, a counsel that deliberately disregards the law. As for the righteous man—"he has never taken such counsel, nor has he ever practiced it. He is not even one of the חטא—no longer deliberating—he has lost all deliberative character." He has let known of no deliberate transgression of the law."

ולא עמד חטאים בדרך, and if due to lack of seriousness, or thoughtlessness, it is possible that a frivolous person might step into an errant or failing—he strayed onto a wrong path, onto a wrong דרך, he never stood or remained on it, he forsook it as soon as he recognized it for what it really was.

— ובמושב לצים לא ישב can hardly be said of any one person. But אשרי אדם can be meant in that each once he has recognized his error—is repulsed of even the erring. Yet even in:

וטעמים נדבת לו. No person, least of all those faithful to their duty, can avoid having contact with theoretical enemies and scorners of the moral law and the Torah. He will perhaps sit among them at some time. Yet he is to be fulfilled only in communion with others. No one can choose for himself the environment in which he will move. This environment is often arbitrarily set up for one. His surroundings have their effect on an individual. So it can be said of a person, and from his natural character and in his natural attitude that the duty-conscious person must prove his God-ordained principles through a test that cannot be diverted or confused. After all, it is not demanded of one that he close himself hermetically and flee the world, but to discussion and conversation that the sophistry of the לצים unfolds its art that is so confusing to logic and so detrimental to morals. It is not expected that he is to live among the לצים and yet remain undisturbed. (Song 6:8-9) On the contrary, the "rest" of the בצע. Anyone can decide for himself how to use his leisure time. During our leisure time we belong to ourselves and to those who share our views. We then can freely choose.

V. 2. יהוה תורת אם כי is a stronger form of עצה, "to seek," and רוח denotes the goal and the striving for it. In contrast to the רשעים, the law is no obstacle to him for which he must strive for what he seeks in life. Law of God. There his goals have been set and his paths marked out. (It has been given to him for his understanding and for fulfillment by him, and therefore his emotions and mind immerse themselves in this his own Toranic Law "day and night.") יום. Double day, the time of his actual deliberation, and thought, which finds expression.
