"He slings a stone at a hair's breadth and does not allow it to miss its mark" (Judges 20:16) denotes unemotional straying, sinning against the law because of levity, or lack of seriousness. The form חטא, just as כלה, מלא (II Sam. 11:2), נדד (Prov. 1:11), denotes a transgression that results from a character trait because of his levity. He is not even someone who merely goes astray at times—a very human failing—but he is a חטא, a "frivolous person" according to his whole character.

The word לץ is derived from לעז (phonetically related to לוז), "not keeping fast to the same course," "to remove oneself from this course" in some manner, sometimes into another language, (Gen. 42:23), יבין ענה sometimes into scoffing, as לעג (Neh. 2:19), לעב, פלעת (Job 16:20), sometimes into stammering, כלשן בלע, כלעג להם. In its noble sense this word denotes the art of translation from one language into the other, which seeks to detach the thought content from the form of the one language for presentation of the facts in behalf of the defense. When applied to the emotions, it denotes the pleasant wit; i. e. poetry. In its less noble meaning, however, לץ is the scoffing person who separates speech and writing from their true, permissive and despisable art of distorting speech. In a false though superficially attractive manner, the לץ represents the base and mean as being lofty and ennobling, and the noble and lofty as being low, despicable, disrespectful and severely treated. This is the execrable art of spurious dialectics and twisted irony. Jointly with the רשעים and the חטאים, the לצים are the foes of the Torah. The רשעים, because of their own conduct, the חטאים, because of their frivolity, out of habit or from sheer conviction, still practice all the precepts of the Torah, yet ridicule this way of life. Their pacific serves to undermine the hearts of those adherents who respect for all that which is sacred and holy.

The words מקרי and יהגה upon related both phonetically and in concept: מקרי, "counsel," deliberation, counsel," הגה, "to speak in low tones"—both mouth and lip and tongue move and the thoughts gradually emerge. Thought moulds itself into a לשון, and shapes and forms the voice into an articulated sound of speech. יהגה—this most of the ה-roots in relation to the ו-roots—is the condition, or conclusion.

The word יומם, from which יום is derived, does not primarily mean "to give advice to another" but actually denotes the reaching of a decision after deliberate reflection. יועץ on עצה is actually only the result, the final outcome of that deliberation. So it is also particularly said of God, יעץ, עצת יהוה היא תקום יעצר רבות בעצתי (Isaiah 14:24, 26, etc.). It is in direct contrast to מעשה which expresses the complete perpetuity and hopelessness of all hope lost. As opposed to this, we have יצר perpetuity overcome by deliberation.
