while the lawless man vainly seeks to attain prosperity simply through human
shrewdness and force, the righteous man sincerely receives a blessing from the
Most High. His piety is רנא, thus earning him a distinction, and God, Who
declares and suffering still haunts the righteous man, that Divine favor of which
God makes him aware because of his innocence, will surround him even like
a shield and protect him. He knows—whatever evil may threaten to en-
danger his calm and his peace of mind: "Thou surroundest him with favor
as with a shield," רוע is related to רעח, "to close off", רעה, רעה, "to separate",
"to separate from the surrounding masses, to place at the side." From this
רענין, "crown", the circlet symbolically separating, distinguishing; in scarce
sense רעס; רעס, "to be separate", רעץ רע is also used in a hostile sense, רעהו הירב,
"breaking forth", viz.: attack.

If we review the ideas contained in this psalm, we see, then, that it
describes the various ways in which even next to attain happiness on earth.
According to it, the way of חזי, the lawless, the frivolous רעהם, or the רע,
is by way of "evil", "hostility", "violence", "deceit", fraud and "deception". But
even if evil seems to triumph temporarily, it will never ultimately prevail as the
result of its own plotting. The רעיק, the righteous man, goes to God's
Sanctuary to seek for himself these principles that are to guide his conduct,
and in his need he finds refuge with God, and pours out his heart to Him.
Even if he seems to suffer temporary defeat, God's blessing still awaits him
in the end. Whenever may befell him, the knowledge that he has won God's
favor, and that his cause is one with God's cause, permeates his soul with
all their depressing force. He shall yet be happy in the future, and even today
he is more fortunate than the others. The title word תזרעת is thus descriptive
not only of the content of this psalm but also of the prevailing character of
תזרעת, the divisions and final acquisitions of man. God is the רע/חיק וע שיא,
by elevating the spirit of man, God helps him attain understanding and
moral conduct in שלם, the physical world. This then leads to רושאם, the
ultimate goal of mankind, and thus makes him victorious over error. We
have already pointed out the basic significance of רוע, "a stream", "a cur-
rent", denotes the flow of physical forces. רוע, the flow of man's spirit, but
in the abstract form. In Rabbinic literature (B. K. 116a), חא, in the form
זוע in which it occurs there, מורעת בע חזוע, denotes a stream of bees that
are swarming forth. The עת has always been regarded as the representative
seeking a resting place, a colony, as "inheritance". It would be easy here to
interpret the word רורעת to denote the various "currents" and trends within
the sphere of human aspirations—the main streams, large and small that—
The meaning we have explained here would still remain the same. Mankind
has flows from its native "hive" and follows varying "currents" or trends in
order to find the "ultimate in happiness on earth.
