V. 6. מלכי ואני. "In contrast to their endeavors and to the ways and means by which they sought the shaping and determination of the salvation of peoples and nations," says the Lord, "I had indeed shown them long ago, for their guidance, what I mean by 'My King'." Through the institution and anointment of the Dynasty of David upon Zion, the mountain of My Sanctuary of God's Law, God has recorded in the book of the history of nations the fact that He will regard as His own only that type of leadership of peoples and nations which is based upon allegiance to His Law, to which He had directed His Sanctuary on Zion—Zion, the very name of which דיק "is my token," is memorial for mankind. (See Jeremiah 31:20; Kings II, 23:17; Hezekiel 39:15; See Isaiah 2:4; Jeremiah 30:17). Their entire method of procedure up to now as described in Verses 1—3 was thus one of open disregard of this fact. Indeed it was open rebellion against the will of God as made known by this fact.—בני, "to cover", "to pour out" a liquid over something; therefore "to anoint", related to נזל, such as בני and נגר, בני כנזל, בני אותה, נזלי, בני, etc.

V. 7. אל חק ארפרה. ארפרה. חק is primarily the mere "recounting" of facts, but not the "proclamation" of laws. חק denotes the movement toward a goal. The thought expressed here is: "Therefore I wish to recount the fact of my designation as 'God's King on Zion' so long and so often until it shall become a principle of life, because this fact shall become the basis for the moral conduct of the nations and their leaders."

בני אתה. Just as God called Israel בני when speaking to Pharaoh (Exod. 4:22) and thus designated Israel as a special creation of God in the history of the nations, as a people that, unlike the other nations, and come into being not simply from an interaction of historical influences and events, so God now also calls David בני, as a king among kings. He did not become king by inheritance or by his own action, nor had he attained the throne merely through election by men. God Himself had chosen and appointed him king; his kingship was brought about directly by God—it was a proclamation of God's will. היום יליד, "I have this day begotten you". "Unlike other
