Peoples and nations, too, will perish if, instead of placing their sovereignty and government in the service of the moral law, they will use their might in contradiction to its demands, and without concerning themselves with it.

This moral law was made known to the peoples by ה׳ משיח. At the time when men first organized into nations and started upon their path, תורת משה נתן למשרת ישראל at Sinai, God did not speak to Israel only, "with might and flame, God led one people of His own creation into the midst of the other nations. This people, in contrast to all others, was to serve God and His Teaching in its internal and external, social and private life, in power of glory, but solely upon the loyal obedience to God's moral Law. The earliest acts of this people, David, imbued with the spiritual and moral principles of such a mission, was consecrated by God unto Himself and unto the nations in which the mission of Israel in the midst of the nations, for all centuries, have so wondrously based their way from the banks of the Jordan to the hearths of all those who worship God. This mission of David and the mission of Israel in the midst of the nations are one. Now this Psalm (I.I f.) who from the beginning had been consecrated for this purpose.

This psalm sees the nations and their rulers rise up against the people that were assigned the task of bearing His Teaching. In their endeavors, the unique grandeur and the unique all-conquering power of God's Law, by virtue of its enduring existence and the inspired words of its Anointed against the world and despite the world and against world history and despite world history. The psalm, however, closes the psalm with this question:

למה,—"why, then—does only the morally righteous can be sure of his and the future; only God's sovereign rule—why, then," וגו׳ רגשו, and אדם יהגו.

רגש means "to be put into motion by some outside influence." (See Gen. 45:5.) יהגו is a people that is stirred from without into one single body of riotous commotion; as רעש ערעש המון (Psalm 46:7) רעמו מעיאני רועש (called רעש) from within. (See Gen. 25:22). אדם are, primarily, מלכיא, משטרא, the representatives and leaders of the national powers joined towards the masses in the body politic, the leaders, in contrast to the leadership of the secular order. See עולה רעש מואב וארץ (Prov. 8:15). על, יתיצבו, to establish מלכי־ארץ (Isaiah 1:8.), "to set something down as a principle," לסוד נוסדו (See Psalm 31:14.), is "to constitute together." In לה מלך מים with משיח code of conduct." יתיצבו על יהוה, the four statements of Verses
