     1→might if not entirely on his heart of prayers, but throughout his life, in all of his
     2→thinking, all his desires and achievements are directed towards God. If God
     3→is his fear then וקא ימע, 'ה means "to tremble" rather than to "wager."
     4→God then is the substance on which the whole man is based and rests, from Whom
     5→he never, referring to God, in Chap. 2, Verse 11, only the term וב is stronger
     6→still. Let the thought of God's ever-present omnipotence and greatness over-
     7→whelm you—indeed, let it shake you to the very foundations of your whole per-
     8→sons really is. Let these truths, which make even the torpid, question his own
     9→unbridled, penetrate your souls, so that you may realize that all human acts
    10→and thoughts are always performed in the presence of God, and in
    11→such a manner that you will want to sin. וב ואטחת. There is no need to
    12→express it in words or to communicate it to others. When you are quite alone
    13→with yourselves, lying upon your beds, away from all men and from God, then admit it
    14→to yourselves and pledge it within your own hearts.
    15→
    16→V. 6. וק יבקז חבז והלס. (See Commentary to Deut. 33:19). And thus
    17→bring unto God the sacrifices of a dutiful and righteous life. Do this in the
    18→spirit of the הקדצ sacrifices. As a rule, that is what is understood by הקדצ. It
    19→is a sacrifice brought for the attainment of personal fulfillment. It is to state not
    20→only how to "tremble" in God's presence, but also how to "rejoice" before
    21→Him and how to attain רשא םולש ימלש (Chap. 2:11) a spirit which finds
    22→its happiness in being able to accomplish its duties. For this should be your only
    23→trust to God's help and assistance. והב וחטב is trust in God, "to feel secure" in
    24→and through God. An attitude which upon the man blessed with good fortune
    25→will become security both of his moral conduct and also as regards his external
    26→material possessions but in God, and that he will be able to rejoice in his
    27→good fortune only if, and so long as, he can and will regard it as a sign of
    28→God's favor and a reward for righteousness, and that he will therefore be con-
    29→tinuingly to await God's help even amidst the gravest vicissitudes and, thus,
    30→to find peace and serenity even before help has actually come.
    31→
    32→V. 7. םישאמה השמשה etc. Verses 3—6 have first uncovered the source,
